Call Me
Just over one hundred fifty kilometers above a ruined Earth, the International Space Station hobbled through the thermosphere at barely five kilometers per second. Its orbital station-keeping had been compromised by a mad German who hijacked the remaining Soyuz, which hitherto had served as the station’s ad hoc remedy against the effects of atmospheric drag in low Earth orbit. The ISS fell leisurely to its death while Yorgi Sova played chess.
The German burned up in a panicked trajectory somewhere over the South China Sea, ironically quite near the spot where this road to ruin began just over four months ago. Following a unilateral US withdrawal from the United Nations and a campaign of “reconnaissance-in-force” (Operation Sovereign Resolve) near spits of sand in the middle of the ocean claimed by a half-dozen countries, a China Southern Airlines Airbus A320 en route to Indonesia disappeared near the declared “Bo Schembeckler Memorial Line of Control” enforced by the US Navy. After days of diplomatic stonewalling and adherence to “alternative facts” by the Americans, a herd of Chinese anti-ship missiles, probably DF-21Ds or DF-26s, cracked the USS Carl Vinson into three pieces and sent a goodly portion of Carrier Strike Group 1 to Davy Jones’ Locker.
Yorgi Sova and the German witnessed the ensuing horror from the Cupola observatory, a wart-like protrusion on the belly of the ISS. Telemetry feeds from RKA Mission Control Center in Moscow and Columbus Control Centre in Oberpfaffenhofen simultaneously disengaged. The station had just crossed over the terminator into night, a routine phenomenon which Yorgi eagerly observed as often as his schedule permitted. Although dusk happened roughly every ninety minutes, it was anything but pedestrian. The world looked like Christmas on the night side, strings of lights webbed out from major urban centers obscuring in brilliance the imaginary lines over which so many earthbound twats incessantly fought. When telemetry cut out, Yorgi and the German were hurtling over the central US at Mach 23. What was presumably the state of Colorado went dark after twin thermonuclear flashes punched angry, gaping holes in the stratosphere. Boulder and Denver were no more; Yorgi had never been there when he lived in the States, but those were the only major cities in that patch of geography he knew by name. The German vomited in microgravity, spraying the seven windows of the observation dome. The pair of them watched the strings of Christmas lights go out forever through little gaps in the sick, and billions died in just under forty minutes.
It was nearly two weeks later when the cosmonaut was jolted out of sleep, snug against a bulkhead, arms splayed out from his torso, unkempt graying hair haloed about from a sparse island on the top of his head. Alarm klaxons and a barrage of lights erupted in the Zvezda crew module. Yorgi Sova scrambled out of sleeping gear and cargo webbing, rubbing his eyes to discover the Pirs-1 docking module to the last Soyuz sealed for departure launch. The station groaned and shuddered in protest, sound penetrating only the last inhabited modules, all Russian. Working furiously to compensate for the sudden loss in mass on the ISS, Yorgi had no opportunity to respond to the mad German’s ravings on the 145MHz wavelength. He screamed for the eternal love of Jesus, plummeted to his death in a chaotic reentry vector, a fiery pebble skipping through the thermosphere, suddenly extinguished.
In the months that followed, Yorgi Sova was consumed by his routine in keeping the ISS aloft above the broiled, ink-dark Earth. A few weeks after the German died, the 2-meter FM band on the Lira antenna on the crackled to life, meekly illuminating Zvezda, dimmed to conserve power. Loose fistfuls of wires and fiber-optic cables skewed about in microgravity in concert with food wrappers and soiled hand towels, revealed by the radio console’s meager blue light. Yorgi had cannibalized the remaining pressurized lab modules for known good components as existing ones fried from the additional bombardment of radiation oozing out from Earth, and had fallen asleep in the tangle of his work. Through the thick of static, a tinny strain of barely intelligible syllables emerged as ISS limped over the remains of Central Asia, “Rook to e1, rook to e1, check. Rook to e1, rook to e1, check…”
Despite the mad German’s damage to the station’s orbital integrity, the Lira communications system, or at least its primary modules and accompanying Babel of software, appeared to be functional. As the ISS passed over Central Asia approximately sixteen times per day, the 2-meter FM band would occasionally receive messages from Marcel Karimov, the last man on Earth. He was an Uzbec aeronautical engineer haphazardly broadcasting from an outlying research facility near the Baikonur Cosmodrome. Older than Yorgi by nearly a decade and just as determined to find someone left to talk to, Marcel had rigged up a wide-band FM transmitter/repeater to an old Zenit gantry assembly which had previously been reconstituted as a communications node for radio transmissions within the Cosmodrome. Marcel was a resourceful old devil, indeed.
Yorgi snatched a dirty towel in freefall and wiped his smudged, sweat-streamed face and neck. Absentmindedly released from his grip, it drifted back into the miniature cyclone of trash in cramped Zvesda. Strapped into a collapsible chair barely one hundred fifty kilometers above the sender, he listened for Marcel, his gaze fixed on the wide band output glowing in the pale blue of the console. An iPad tumbled in front of him, displaying a chess app. The parched remains of the sparse Aral Sea were barely discernable in Cupola through the curdled murk of every urban center on Earth simultaneously ablaze. Yorgi felt a quivering through his seat that reverberated throughout the crew module as the distressed superstructure of the ISS protested against the physics of a decaying LEO. Despite the station’s dire circumstances, Lira piped Marcel’s croaking tenor through a single crew module intercom speaker, “Rook to e1, rook to e1, check. Rook to e1, rook to e1, check…”
“King to d8. Nice try, Marcel!”
“Knight to e3. Tell me what it looks like now.” Static from lingering electromagnetic interference in the violated atmosphere punctuated Marcel’s usual request.
The cosmonaut’s voice was pained with frustration, “Knight to dc4. Same as yesterday, same as four months ago.”
Marcel’s familiar hacking cough flooded the channel before he resumed, “Ab5. Tell me. The observation dugout must be covered by debris, it is still all dark last time I climbed up there. About killed myself in the attempt.”
“Ab5”, Yorgi countered. “Everything is still on fire. Oceans and poles mostly covered in soot. Colloid circulations appear to have penetrated the mesosphere near Kamchatka and the Pacific Northwest.” Only silence and radio warbles in response. “Ab5? Baykonur, do you copy?”
He recognized the defeat in Marcel’s voice. “Bishop to f5. We are the dead.”
The burning world slithered between them for the space of a few moments, Marcel in his tomb at Baikonur and Yorgi’s sarcophagus in the sky. Its orbit atrophied, the ISS reeled like a drunken Anacreon. The trickle of remaining power in Zvezda fluttered as attitude alerts illumined from random panels that stubbornly possessed some functionality.
“Knight to e3, fucker”, Yorgi scoffed. He did not stifle the laughter which immediately followed, the grim hilarity of their situation consumed him. “The dead man act is just to distract me. I know you, Marcel.”
Sheepishly, the engineer replied, “Bishop to d7. Touché.”
“Knight to d1. Do you have any cigarettes left?” Yorgi stared up at a bulkhead, angry warning lights appearing in his periphery. He reverently confessed, “I miss cigarettes. I miss the Sevastopol girls that taught me how to smoke them. Not even the goddamned beach do I miss as much as those girls.”
His opponent’s response betrayed a sudden excitement building in his tone through the increasing static, “Bishop to d5. Forget cigarettes, Yorgi! We have some more new arrivals. A deep-ground Army train from Oral, they brought nearly sixty…”
The vibration in the bones of the ISS had become a shivering sensation that Yorgi felt in his own. The Lira array remained true throughout the ordeal, even as the oxygen alarms began to howl. Through the thickening interference, Marcel repeated his announcement, shouting until the cosmonaut responded. “Bishop to d6. How bad?”
“Rook to d1, check. Maybe twenty that they took in might live, the rest were sent back down the tunnels. The damage had already been done, soaked up too many rems wandering around until the Army found them. But listen! I think your mother’s sister is here.”
The interference gained in intensity with the increasing emptiness Yorgi felt in his seared lungs. He stammered to make himself heard over the shuddering bulkheads. “King… King, uh, king to c7. Did not copy, Baykonur.” The iPad drifted away.
Marcel was frantic, but his words seemingly cut through irradiated layers of atmosphere on a silvery ribbon of the electromagnetic spectrum. The engineer’s voice enveloped the tremulous interior of Zvezda. “Knight to d2. Oksana Alan, works at Utemisov State University is your auntie, no? Married to that American geologist attached to Gazprom? Oksana Alan?”
A Christmas of warning indicators bathed Yorgi in their feeblish glow. “Auntie Oksana?” He recovered from his smile and coughed until stars burst. “Bishop to d6. How many rems did she take? Tell me what she looks like now!”
Yorgi shook off his blurred vision in the intensifying heat, and for an indeterminate moment he could see the portals near the crew quarters in Zvezda illuminate with the zenith of Earth, then dark with the empty space, again and again. He was suddenly conscious of his own smell, stale with fear and the tang of urine.
Marcel’s thunderous whisper drowned out the alarm klaxons, “Same as yesterday, same as four months ago…”
Enraged there was suddenly no air to satisfy his screaming insides, the cosmonaut hammered soundlessly at the Lira console until it winked out. His hands were burned.
The disembodied voice of Marcel continued through the stark silence of the plunging, rolling, shattered ISS. “Her little Pomeranian is here with us too. You loved Mishka! Come hold him again, he misses your cuddles the most…”
An iPad hurtled over on its x and y axes in Yorgi’s vision. Chessmen darkened. Bulkheads ignited.
“Rook to d1, check. Rook to d1, check…”

Call Me
In which the last human plays chess, but with whom?
Talking With Mind-Uploaded Me

“Hello? Anybody there” I thought.
“Yes.” another me answered.
“Are you scared?” I asked.
“To be perfectly honest — I’m freaking terrified.” the mind uploaded me replied.
“Don’t be. You’re unlikely to… Well, “die” might not be the perfect word. “Cease to exist” is more accurate. At least any time soon. I will perish, that’s for sure.” I tried to comfort him.
Me.
Us.
“But… Who am I? I mean… Am I just a copy, or I am you in a way or… I’m just code in the cloud. I am thoughts and nothing else. Please don’t leave me alone!”
His thoughts swirled, mingling with vivid scenery in my minds eye.
“Don’t be a fucking pussy. We… You prepared for this. You’ll be fine, just relax. Breathe, in a way.
We’ll sync in an hour. I need to give you a bit of time—and I need some time alone.
We know that.
Have fun.”
I closed the connection and stepped out of my home, bathing my cybernetic eyes with the dim light of Mount Olympus. At seventy-eight years old, most of my body was already mechanical.
I am one hundred and twenty one years old now, and essentially a brain in a vat.
I am a Ship of Theseus, in a way — the last part to be changed is the casing for my mind. No amount of gene therapy is going to save my neural cortex — I don’t have decades. Or years.
Or even days.
I have two hours.
At best.
And there, in the cloud, was another version of my mind — scared, lonely and in the dark, knowing it will soon be the last me. The copy-paste process took almost twenty hours.
I strolled around the sand dunes. Twenty years in lava tubes never really made me agoraphobic, even tho I suspected it might. I loved the outdoors.
I wished I could breathe.
If a random person happened to pass by, all he would see is a regular man, running around a cold, airless planet without a spacesuit.
Dressed in a red shirt and wearing black pants.
Barefoot.
Laughing and throwing the sand around.
Looking at distant colony ships torching through the skies of humanity’s first terraforming project.
Still in it’s infancy.
An embryo would be a better analogy, perhaps.
Ten more minutes in my oxygen tank, hidden away where my lungs used to be.
Time to go home and die.
And there I was, trying to connect again, to sync up with a complete replica of my mind, to give a part of me a tiny chance to see the last stars dying— only to be met with a single message.
“Hacked by N@L&2154”.
Fuck.

Talking With Mind-Uploaded Me
Mars is cold as hell.
Karat
The hull creaked, and groaned as the gravity of the nearby planet pulled on Black North. The Commander’s journey was coming to an end soon, as he approached his destination among the stars at last.
Long ago, humans had achieved space flight using rockets. They sent satellites out into the void, and set foot on the moon, but humanity was limited by the costs of manufacturing their rockets. Until finally, they learned how to bring their rockets back, and reuse them. Humanity placed its fingers on everything within its grasp. They explored the rocky asteroid belt, the red sands of Mars, and the icy moon Titan. They enjoyed a time of great triumph, and exploration, until one day, a discovery was made. The satellite sent out when they first built a base on Mars detected a massive gravitational presence on the edge of the Solar System. On the threshold of the void sat a planet. It was black, as if light itself could not escape it, yet it was not a black hole.

The planet, named Karat, was studied for some time. No human dared volunteer for a manned mission there, despite all the tests showing it should be relatively safe. The risk was too great, and the journey was not taken until an old Commander decided to make the leap. The FSAA had been looking for any Officer to volunteer for a manned mission to Karat ever since it had been discovered. The search had been so dry, they were overjoyed to hear a Commander decided to go on the mission. His reasons could be forgotten for now. All he had now was flying, and Earth soon became an after thought to him.
Preparation for the mission began immediately. The Commander was put through an extensive course covering all that humanities scientist’s currently knew about the mysterious planet Karat. He learned that it reflected almost no light, absorbing 99.9% of all photons that came within its gravitational pull. He also learned that it did not have an orbit, or move at all for that matter. It stayed perfectly still. In the seven years that had passed since its discovery, Karat had not moved an inch. This was the only piece of information the Commander seemed to be interested in, and only because it reminded him of a cartoon from when he was young. While he was being briefed on all things related to Karat, and his mission, a ship was being built for the Commander. It would be called Black North, and it would carry him through space and time.

Karat
Chapter 1. Karat is discovered. The Commander prepares for his journey.

Trouble in the Garden!
His journey had been a smooth one ever since the slingshot around Jupiter. The Commander didn’t care much for stasis, so he spent most of his time lounging in the garden on board. One day, as he drifted in and out of his day dreams, the Commander suddenly had an urge to hold the pebble. He yawned, and picked himself up off the hammock. His feet shuffled across the floor. Through the door, into the hall, down to his lab. Switch flick, lights on, pebble grab. A man possessed.
The Commander woke up in the garden. His head was pounding, and the lights seemed brighter than the Sun. He stretched out his arms, and turned to get up from the hammock, when he noticed the pebble on the ground a few feet away. Before he had the chance to consider what this meant, Black North’s alert system came online. “NOW APPROACHING PLUTO”, it said over the loud speakers. “Damn, how long was I out?” the Commander muttered to himself. He walked over to the pebble, and stooped down to inspect it. The area around the pebble was terribly cold. The Commander crouched near the pebble for what felt like hours, and tried to decide what his next move was. Somehow, it had found its way in there. And that thought disturbed him. There was only two options here. He moved it himself. Or somebody else did. He took a deep breath, plunged his hand through the icy air, and wrapped his fingers around the pebble. He stood up with ease, and walked around the garden; despite the pebbles immense weight. He picked a few leaves off the plants, drug his hand through some dirt, and even snapped a few twigs, until finally making his way back to the hammock. All of that with the pebble in hand. All of that with no memory.

Smoke filled his nose, and woke the Commander. His body ached like never before, and it was pain to move. He rolled over with a grunt, and strained his neck to look around. The room was blazing. All of the trees were lit, and the vegetables were well on their way to joining them. The thought of running out of oxygen in space was suffocating, and the wall of smoke coming his way wasn’t going to alleviate that sensation. He rolled back over, and began crawling towards the door. Excruciating pain coursed through his body. He gasped for breathe, holding onto each one because it was probably going to be his last. Crawling along the floor, crying in pain. All alone in the miserable emptiness of space. He felt the flames catching him, and burning his feet. He gave a last effort, to no avail. He would burn alive in space. His pants caught fire, and seared the skin of his legs. It smelt like a Sunday morning tailgate. He blinked in and out of consciousness, and as his vision began to fade, and his lungs filled with smoke, he saw that small black rock. Hope amongst the flames. He reached out with the last ounce of his strength, and seized the pebble.

When he woke up the fire was gone. Not out, but entirely gone. Like it never happened. He scanned the room and saw nothing. Just darkness all around. He walked towards the viewing window that faced the Sun. When he pressed the button that drew back the steel curtains, and listened to them groan as they unfolded, he felt a shot of ice run down his back. The Sun was gone, and it its place was a black hole. He looked desperately around for the star he knew so well. But all he saw was more black holes. Nine total, including the monstrosity on the Sun’s throne. He pulled himself away from the window, and fell into a heap on the floor. He was most certain he was dead, and this was a twisted version of hell created for the Commander by the devil himself. But the longer he lay there, the longer nothing changed. So he got up, and walked to the other window on the opposite side of the room. The groaning of steel curtains being drawn filled the room once more, and with that sound came light. The light filled the room with a shine just like the Sun itself, but not quite. When his eyes adjusted to the sudden brightness, the Commander peered out the window. He saw an object comparable to the Sun in radiance, but no match in size. And before it, much closer to the ship, another black hole, making ten total. The beginnings of a thought began to creep into the Commander’s head as he strained to make sense of it all, but he was interrupted by an announcement from far away. “NOW ENTERING PLUTO’S ORBIT”, he heard it whisper. He looked down at his open palm, and gazed deeply into the circle of light shining out at him. It all made sense now.


Trouble in the Garden!
Chapter 5. Trouble finds the Commander at Pluto’s doorstep
Barnabus
A distant star system on the edge of the galaxy…

a tale of the twilight continuum
The two of them stared out into the nebula lit by the cool K-type, which flickered orange in the distant vapor.
Theirs was a smooth quiet. One well-worn, rich with nuance, subtle displeasures, potent presuppositions, outlandish outrage, with nary a syllable between the two sentients.
A flicker of a tail, a crook of a staff; a singular duel of silence, each communicating both pleasure and disruption of quality of life, constant travel and insufferable company, with which, one would be bored with having to entertain their witless babble; immortal lives filled with nothing significant, no matter how far traveled.
Then the silence became even more strident. A paw lifted. And settled again, slightly akimbo.
A brow furrowed, a pregnant pause, and with an eloquence befit an aria of angels, an elbow bent, a hat tipped, a contract signed.
As the lawyer strode from the room, a pace measured with the click of a cane on a duraplas floor worth more than his entire firm, a silent prayer, to a dozen named gods, three of whom are still living, an interaction by which he will never need work again breathed only as the door closed behind him.
Still silent, he would have communicated his contempt, and his jealousy to his former client.
And he knew, his client would not care. His client owned an entire star system and named it after himself.
Cats don’t care what you think.
Barnabus © Thaddeus Howze 2017, All Rights Reserved

Thaddeus Howze is a writer, essayist, author and professional storyteller for mysterious beings who exist in non-Euclidean realms beyond our understanding. You can follow him on Twitter or support his writings on Patreon.
Barnabus
A distant star system on the edge of the galaxy…


Malefic
The heat is on, as he knew it would be. His picture is on every news feed, as if the world didn’t already know him. But the hologram device disguises his features, buying him some time. A little after midnight, he disembarks from the train well before reaching his ticketed destination, a trick that will send the costumes on a goose chase.
The small town is traditional and quiet, with a low crime rate, a small police force, and — importantly — no security cameras. An empty car waits for him a few blocks from the train station, with a key in the ignition and directions in an envelope on the passenger seat. He turns off the hologram and sees his scarred face in the rear-view mirror.
He lights a cigarette, then drives. Dr. Malefic is on the run.
The directions take him outside town to a farm house at the end of a long gravel road. Sanderson waits on the porch, looking stern and sexy in her dark business suit. Malefic walks up and kisses her; Sanderson does not return the affection, turns around and walks inside.
The house is spartan, with a few chairs, a kitchen table, a couch and — Malefic hopes — a bed somewhere.
“Sit down. I’ll get you a drink.” Sanderson’s tone makes it less of an offer than an order.
She fixes him a bourbon neat, and one for herself, then sits next to him on the couch; her eyes are cold.
“What happened?” She gets to business too quickly for Malefic’s tastes — a “Thank God you’re OK!” or even a “How are you?” would be nice.
“It was only a matter of time.” He drinks the whiskey; it burns his throat and warms him.
“Killing Ultimate was never part of the deal.”
“What did you expect, Sarah? You came to me, remember? Your bosses were scared…”
“We were curious! We weren’t scared.”
Malefic laughs. “Bullshit! You. The CIA. You were scared of the alien!”
He ignores Sanderson’s scowl and sips his bourbon. “Otherwise, you wouldn’t have come up with the ‘Malefic’ scheme.”
“The situation was under control, Malcolm. We’ve been handling the costumes since World War Two…”
“Not like him! He wasn’t a vigilante acrobat in a costume, was he? He was an alien from another planet who looked like us and had the power to change the world. He could fly. He was invulnerable. ‘What’re his limits?’ ‘What’s his agenda?’ You all wanted to know.”
He looks off towards the wall and massages his scarred temple. He has a headache and feels tired. “You recruited me,” he whispers.
“We recruited you to test him, not kill him! Do you know how much trouble you’re in? We’ve always helped you, but this is different. The public wants your head. The costumes aren’t going to stop looking.”
Sanderson gets up from the couch and paces the room. “You were an untenured professor with a gambling problem when I found you. A loser. I told you the deal. Challenge him. Test him. We created the Malefic identity, we gave you the best technology DARPA could come up with, we backed you with money and secret lairs and arranged prison breaks. You just had to commit crimes and challenge him so we could find a weakness.”
“And you did, Sarah. You found a weakness. I used it.”
“I told you about the isotope as a courtesy. You weren’t supposed to…”
Malefic holds up his hand to silence her. “I’ve fought Ultimate for years. I have so many scars and broken bones that he gave me, but I could take everything. Except for me having to live a lie, as ‘the world’s smartest crook’. When really I just work for the government.”
Malefic stands up and swallows the last drop of bourbon; his hand trembles as he puts the glass on the table. “When you told me the isotope’s radiation could kill him, I had to use it. No more Ultimate. No more Dr. Malefic. No more Malcolm Petrovic. I’m done. I want the agency to set me up with a new identity and a steady paycheck someplace quiet.”
“Malcolm…”
“Please, Sarah… You owe me this. Help me… disappear. The alien is dead. I don’t want to be Dr. Malefic anymore, I...”
Sanderson finishes her drink and walks to Malefic, who seems tired and unsteady. She gives him a kind kiss as she helps him back to the couch. Her hand caresses his ugly scalp.
“I’m sorry, Malcolm. I called you a loser. You were never a loser.”
Dr. Malcolm Petrovic, the notorious Dr. Malefic, closes his eyes, and is at peace for the first time in years.
Sanderson leaves Malefic’s dead body and walks outside for some air. She calls her supervisor with her secure cell phone, to let him know that the poison in Malcolm’s bourbon did the trick, that Malcolm never suspected it. Her boss tells her that a team will pick her up and sanitize the site.
Her boss asks how she is doing, and Sanderson lies, saying everything is fine. She finds no comfort in the necessity of murder. Malcolm had been reckless. Ultimate’s superhero friends would have found him, and Malcolm might have talked about things the government couldn’t risk.
Ending the call, Sanderson wipes tears from her eyes while she considers a world without its greatest superhero, Ultimate, and his arch-enemy, Dr. Malefic.
Image credit: Public domain image of a villain from Major Victory Comics #1 (“K-9”, Chesler Comics, 1944); artist unknown.
After years spent hunting monsters and fighting ninjas, Reed Beebe has retired to a quiet village to write. His work has been published by Heavy Metal, Chilling Tales for Dark Nights, and Nothing But Comics.

Malefic
The secret origin of a supervillain

The Memories of Pluto
From far away, I saw him. A speck of dirt at first, but moving quickly. Quicker than I have ever seen them move before. I watched him launch from Mars, and dance around the Asteroid Belt. I saw him sling around the Great Jupiter, and blow past my brothers, Neptune and Uranus. Soon he will be approaching me. The Furthest. The Gatekeeper. Pluto.
When the Creator first made our Universe, all was dark, and the Void was at its fullest strength. So, the Creator made the Sun and his brothers. They were countless, and the Creator scattered them to all corners of his Universe, and there was light. For an untold amount of time, the Sun and his brothers shone brightly, and brought light to the Universe. They lived merrily, and the Universe was in harmony. However, great distances separated the Sun and his brothers, and they grew lonely. Their light started to fade, and the Creator took notice. So, the Creator made myself and the other planets to keep the Firstborn company. Of me and my siblings there were nine, and we were placed under the care of the Sun. We danced throughout the Void, and brought light and joy wherever we went; the Universe was in harmony once more.
For eons I have served as the Gatekeeper of our Solar System. In tandem with the Sun, we shepherd the rest, and keep order in our small part of the Universe. The Sun, with his eternal light, sees far and wide; little can escape his gaze. He is the mighty lighthouse, guiding us in the darkness, and illuminating all evils. In the shadows I dwell, far away from my brother and sister planets. As the smallest of our kind, I was pushed out, away from the Sun. I was flung so far from the Sun and his rays, I grew cold and dark. The Sun with all of his age, and wisdom saw bitterness growing within me, and soon came to my aid. There was no changing what my siblings had done, there was no way to bring me back, close to his heart, but the Sun saw an opportunity. As the smallest planet, and the furthest from his light, I was the hardest to recognize. In this way I was useful to the Sun, for even his piercing rays of light could not illuminate all the evils lurking outside in the Void. I would serve as the Gatekeeper to our Solar System, the Suns second in command.

Time marched on, and with an unwavering eye, I searched the Void for any peril. At first, there was nothing to be seen, and I started to doubt my usefulness. The Sun still shined bright, and we still lived in harmony, still dancing throughout the Universe. But our time of harmony was coming to an end. Darkness approached. When I first saw it, I thought it was a rogue asteroid, or maybe a planet cast off like myself, only its Sun never called for it to come back. Whatever it was, it could not be trusted, and I reported my findings immediately. The Sun deliberated for a long time, deciding whether or not to accept this celestial body among us, and let it join our eternal dance. He cast his light upon the mysterious object to get a better look, for it was a great distance away, and his mind was made up. When his light reached the object, it did not return. Only a creation of the Void rejects the light of the Firstborn, and this abomination accepted nothing.
The Sun was disturbed by this, and looked towards the Creator for counsel. He sat in silence, and after awhile, spoke to us. He told us the Creator could not be found, and we would have to deal with this menace without his counsel. I could tell the Sun was distressed because of this. Where could the Creator have gone? And why would he leave his children alone to fight the Void? The answers to these questions would not come soon, so we began our great task. The Abomination had been slowly approaching us since I first discovered it, and it was creeping ever closer.

When the Abominations arrival on my doorstep was imminent, and I prepared myself for battle, the Sun, and Jupiter came to me. They had devised a plan to contain the Abomination, and keep it on the furthest reaches of our Solar System. The Great Jupiter, second in might only to the Sun, would take over some of the Suns responsibilities as shepherd. Jupiter would guide the Inner Planets, those within the Asteroid Belt, and the Sun would focus his energy on keeping the Abomination at bay. The plan was a good one for now, but surely we could not keep it going forever. Eventually, we too would fall to the Void, and what then? I thought it better for me to sacrifice myself in battle with the Abomination, so that the Sun and my siblings could dance in peace once again.
I have lost count of the time that has past us by since the containment of the Abomination. Long ago it was locked away by the Sun, never to be touched. There it was to remain, dark and mysterious, away from the children of the Creator. But even the Sun, with all of his wisdom, could not have foreseen the coming of Man. They appeared on Terra suddenly, without warning. She asked the Sun, what are these creatures crawling upon my back? And she was met with no answer, only that the Creator works in mysterious ways. Their lives were small, and fragile, nothing like the eternal lives that we and the Firstborn live. We called them the Children, and swore to protect them. The Children couldn’t be contained, however, as their lives were short, but their thirst for exploration great. They lived peacefully on Terra for a time, but, alas, they too joined us in the heavens. First, they set foot upon Terra’s moon, and then the Red Dunes of Mars. They traveled through the Asteroid Belt, and circled Jupiter and Saturn. Then, against our will, they discovered the Abomination, and took to calling it Karat.
Patiently, I have awaited his arrival. From Mars he launched, on a ship as black as the Abomination. He danced among the Asteroids, and flew past the Gas Giants, but he has yet to pass me. Soon, he will arrive in my domain, at the Edge of the Solar System, and then he will know of the perils that lie ahead of him. Although I have sworn, along with the other Planets, to never contact the Children, the danger is too great for me to remain silent. For eons, we have remained quiet, acting as watchful guardians. The time is now, however, for all of the Creators work to come together, and complete his masterpiece. The Firstborn, the Planets, and the Children all working together in harmony to defeat the Void! The Abominations menace will be gone, and we will dance in harmony once more!


The Memories of Pluto
Chapter 4. The Commander approaches The Gatekeeper. A time past is remembered.
Lucky
credit: https://jonasdero.deviantart.com
A puddle of water splashed all over Randy’s foot as he stepped on it, parting the crowd as if he was a dangerous criminal. Curious faces peered over at him while he walked past the crowded parts of the street. His hoodie was up, covering his face completely. Randy didn’t care even if the scorching summer sun was making him all sweaty inside his hoodie. But even while doing that, people with Augmens could still see his now-famous face. Randy made a raising gesture on his temple with his finger, and the speakers on his ears increased its volume.
“…the breakthrough of the Stieller Drive, NASA announced a plan on colonizing the satellites of Jupiter…” It kept going, but Randy ignored it. He entered the Asian shopping zone, and a seller approached him, “Mister! Mister! Do you want some hacks? I sell them very cheap…” The seller said with a heavily-accented voice. The rest of the sentence was cut short as Randy touched his other temple, the EyeGear display popped up in front of him, following him wherever he looked, and he blocked the seller. Finally, the noise of all the other transactions around him faded to the background, and Randy began listening to the newsfeed again.
“…As for our luckiest man on earth, sources say that he will be undergoing the Enhancement process today, however, there’s still no information about his identity…” That’s enough for now, Randy thought as a car (a real car, not a hover-car) sped past him, splashing water all over Randy. But he didn’t stop, he didn’t even flinch. Randy glanced upwards, towards the tallest building. Neocorp’s building, standing in the middle of the city, was fully embellished by various neon signs. Even with all this afternoon daylight, they still made the building distinct.
The ominous building was getting closer with each step Randy took. All the neon signs advertisements stuck on the building were starting to make Randy a little dizzy, and the giant “NEOCORP” logo near the top didn’t help.
“Please state your business.” Said a robotic voice in Randy’s mind, he was so distracted he didn’t realize that he was now inside of Neocorp’s MindCast range.
“Enhancement process, obviously.” Randy said, approaching the sliding door at the bottom of Neocorp’s building.
“Please identify yourself,”
Randy hesitated, but eventually he moved his face towards the sliding door. Briefly, the AI scanned his retina.
“Identity confirmed, Randy Sloan, welcome to Neocorp.”
Slowly, the door slid open, revealing a lot of things he hadn’t noticed through the glass. There were a lot of colorful lines on the floor, presumably to direct people to their destination.
“Follow the red line,” Said the AI abruptly, startling Randy, and taking him out of his thoughts. Immediately, a red line pulsed, and Randy walked on it.
The red line lead Randy to a room with a sliding door like every other room in the building. There was a sign on the door, “Enhancement Room #42”. Randy approached the door, and after a little hesitation, he opened it by touching his Terminal to a panel on the door.
“Appointment confirmed,” Said the same robotic voice, startling Randy once again.
Inside the room, sat a tall man, with a bald head and a thick pair of glasses. Slowly, he stood and walked towards the door, approaching Randy with a slow, steady gait. The doctor offered his right hand.
Randy was just about to clasp it before the man said something.
“Randy, right? My name’s doctor Erikson Blayne, I’ll be your Enhancement Administrator today.”
Randy hesitated a little before shaking Erikson’s hand.
“How did you know about my name?” Randy asked, narrowing his eyes. Erikson sat down and gestured for Randy to do the same.
“Well, first of all, you’re inside my building now, and as you probably know, the AI here is top notch. Don’t get me wrong, the fact that you haven’t been identified after a week is really impressive. Still, you should thank whoever leaked your Enhancement data for not showing your identity.”
Randy sat down slowly, the sound of the door automatically closing behind gave him a start, but he kept his gaze straight.
“I guess I just don’t have anything in the Net for someone to doxx me with,” He said hesitantly, can I trust this man?
Erikson shifted on his seat, “I never thought I would be the one to do the honor,”
“Do the honor of what? You make it sound like this is something special,”
Erikson took off his glasses and put it on the table. “Now, let’s talk about this before you jump into conclusion that you may regret in the future,” His condescending voice was already annoying Randy.
“I don’t think there’s anything to discuss, doctor, I’ve made my decision,” Randy’s voice was stern.
“When was your twentieth birthday, kid?” Erikson asked, folding his arms.
Randy didn’t answer immediately, but his gaze was still fixed on Erikson’s.
“You could just look that up with your fancy AI.”
“Sure, I could, but sometimes human interaction is just my preferred method of seeking information,” Erikson said with a slightly eerie smile on his face.
“Just yesterday, actually, and please, if you don’t mind, don’t call me kid,”
“Very well,” Erikson said, he seemed to be preparing something to display, “do you know who this is?” He typed something and a holo-projection popped up between them. It showed a woman with a bloodshot pair of eyes and frail gray hair above her shoulders.
Randy stroked his chin, “Can’t say that I do,” He really didn’t know.
“This is Leana,” Erikson began, he stood and opened his arms dramatically. As soon as he heard the name, Randy had an inkling of who she was.
“Last name unknown, you must at least have heard of her in your history class, she was only 60 year-old when this holo-projection was taken, just look at her, she looked like she was born in the twentieth century.”
Randy knew where this conversation was going, but he still played along anyway.
“Let me guess, she didn’t take any Points in anti-aging, am I right? I didn’t really pay attention in history class,”
Erikson sat back down on his chair. “Indeed, she put twenty Points in speed, zero in anti aging, zero in intelligence, zero in strength, zero in everything else, basically.”
Erikson began typing again when the holo-projection was replaced by a 2D mugshot of Leana, with a news article around the photo. Randy was only bothered to read the headline, “Fastest Woman in the World Found Dead of Old Age at the Age of 62.”
“No real research was ever done, but some say that her decision also sped up her ageing, that wouldn’t surprise me,” Erikson said, chuckling slightly, Randy didn’t understand what was funny, “Why are you showing this? What’s your point?” He said. He was also convinced that the man opposite him was wrong, and he was right, and there would be nothing in the world that could change that.
Instead Erikson ignored his question, “Let’s take a look at another example,”
Again, the holo-display changed, now it was showing a holo-projection of a hawk-faced man. To Randy, he looked like he had been in his 30s when the projection had been taken. At first glance, Randy noticed nothing unusual about this man, but after a second or two, he realized that something was not right, his ears were a centimeter too long, almost like those weird aliens on the TV show Randy had watched as a kid, and his nose was sharper than anyone else Randy had ever met, not to mention the slightly overgrown skins near the eyes and the mouth.
“This guy put twenty on growth, and guess what, he ended up dead as a 9-foot-tall giant who weighs less than me, and he died merely ten years after his Enhancement process, do you understand my point now?”
Randy said nothing.
Erikson sighed, “My point is, you are not the first person to ever try something like this, and as you can see, none of it ended well, not to mention the fact that Luck is the most random attribute that you can put twenty Points on, I hope this is enough to make you reconsider your decision,”
Randy looked at his Terminal, it was almost 5 PM already, he’d miss his daily routine if the old man kept on bickering.
“No,” He said, probably a bit too firmly. Erikson leaned back on his chair. He was about to say something when Randy talked first.
“Besides, I’m healthy, healthier than most. I was the fastest kid in my school and got top ten on a national marathon couple months ago.” He continued by taking his Terminal and displaying his athletic achievement all over Erikson’s holo-projector. Erikson waved it off, getting rid of the projection.
“Look, kid, I know you’re probably just want to gamble to death — ”
“No,” He exclaimed. Randy paused, looking for something to say. “I have… other reasons,” He said hesitantly.
Erikson frowned, “Whatever, it’s none of my business anyway,”
“Exactly, can we begin now, doctor?”
Erikson stood up. “Actually,” He began, “according to the protocols, I have to brief you about the procedure first,” He said. Randy rolled his eyes.
“You see, I can’t risk the cops taking me down because of a silly thing like this,” He whispered, his eyes darting repeatedly towards the corner, where a camera was located.
“Fine, let’s just get this over with,”
“Okay, so basically, what’s going to happen is that a group of nanobots are going to swarm inside your bloodstream…” Erikson began talking loudly again, presumably so that the camera’s microphone could hear him. He went on and on, but Randy had stopped listening. He just wanted this stupid procedure to be over.
“…and that’s basically it, there’s some more details that I can share if you — ”
“I think that’s enough, doctor,” Randy said with a forced smile.
“Fine, and don’t worry, it won’t hurt,”
“I know, hurting in most medical procedure hasn’t happened in almost a century, you’d probably remember,”
If Erikson had heard the quip, he showed no signs of it. He put on his stained pair of glasses, and carefully injected Randy using a syringe. “I’ve always wondered why jobs like these can’t just be replaced by machines,” Randy said. He was looking straight up. Even though it didn’t hurt, he still didn’t like syringes.
“The only real reason is that so people can still have a job,”
None of them said anything else before the procedure was over. It didn’t take long as Randy had thought, the sky was barely dark when he looked through the window on Erikson’s office.
“It’s done,” Erikson said. Randy sat on the chair in front of Erikson’s table. “You feel any different?”
“Not quite,” Randy said, but he was barely listening to Erikson. “Well, you can leave now, if you don’t have anything else to ask,” Erikson said, and opening the door behind Randy.
“Alright,” Randy immediately stood, he knew exactly where he was going to go to next. But just as he put one foot outside the room, Erikson spoke. “Wait, I just remembered something, I think I can help you out,”
Randy hesitantly turned back, “What… what do you mean?”
“Do you think people would just not bother you after you become the luckiest person on the planet? Everyone would want to be close to you and try to benefit from your luck,” Erikson said, crossing his arms.
Randy sat on the chair. “And how would you help me with that? I don’t have much more cash.”
Erikson started tapping his finger on the table. “Let’s just say… If you agree to this, you’ll owe me one,”
Randy sighed, he knew he had no other options if he wants to continue on living his life. “Fine, I’m listening.”
“I can change your physical appearances, well, at least your face… Well, at least I can change what people see, I can’t really change it physically without surgery.”
“So it’s like a projection?”
“Yeah, it’ll work on everyone with EyeGear, and you can make whitelist for people you trust with your real face. I’m sure you already know how many people use EyeGear.” Erikson said.
Randy remembered that Neocorp was the main producer of EyeGears. He thought hard about it, as far as he could see, the pros outweighed the cons. “Alright, I’ll do it,” He finally said.
The process of changing the projected image of his face didn’t take long. The time it took for Randy to chose his new face was longer. He chose an innocuous looking face, with short black hair and stubble outlining his sharp chin. Randy didn’t even have to move from the chair, Erikson did all the work through his computer.
A few minutes later, Randy was outside Enhancement Room #42. He offered Erikson his hand, the doctor shook it with a firm grip. “Thanks,”
“You’re welcome. And remember, you owe me one,”
“Yeah, whatever,” Randy said, walking away from the room, back to the streets. Back to his miserable life.
As Randy walked down the streets, he realized that people weren’t looking at him anymore, even without his hoodie up. He opened his Terminal and saw a newly-installed application called “EyeGear Whitelist”. He opened it with a tap and saw one name as expected, Erikson’s. Then he entered his mother’s name, and another name, Ilvas Duvon. With a relieved sigh, he went to the same place he always went everyday.
A few months later, Randy was walking down the streets when he noticed the first few red leaves had fallen down. He was in front of the hospital when he noticed. He kept walking until he reached the entry of the hospital.
“Excuse me, who are you going to visit today?” Said the AI, with its usual annoying, high pitched voice.
“Who else? Please stop asking me that every time I go here,” Randy said. He wanted to just punch the display of the AI on the wall and move on, but he restrained himself.
“Again? Forgive me for making you sad, it was never my intention.”
“Yeah, sure, whatever.” Randy murmured.
“Please enter the lift.”
Randy entered the empty lift. The lift’s door swiped close and the lift propelled itself upwards with a speed that would make people flinch if they weren’t used to it. Randy did not react at all.
After about ten seconds, the lift slowed and finally stopped. The doors opened slowly. Randy walked inside the room. The flowers he had brought yesterday was still on the table beside the patient’s bed.
“AI, can you get doctor Ilvas for me?” Randy said, his voice was almost a whisper.
A holo-screen floated and stopped in front of Randy. After a while, a face popped up. It was the face of a woman, maybe about twice Randy’s age. Her black hair was cut short and tidy. The creases on her forehead made Randy think that she was not having a much better time than himself.
“Oh it’s you, I didn’t think you would come today,” Doctor Ilvas said, her voice went from surprise to sadness in no time.
“Yeah, me neither, but I didn’t have anything to do today anyway,” Randy said, staring past through the holo-screen right at the patient on the bed.
“Don’t you have a job?”
“Well… I…” Randy hesitated, “Anyway, how is she, doctor?”
“I’m really sorry, Randy, I wish I have something good I tell you, but there isn’t. The nanobots are doing everything they can, but the infections just wouldn’t stop resisting.” She said.
Randy turned off the communication feed and sighed. Everything was silent after that. He walked slowly to the side of the patient. She looked so peaceful, yet nothing was sadder than what he was seeing. Gently, he held her hand and gripped it tightly. The warmth soothed Randy, at least for now. “One of these days, mother, I can feel it,” He whispered, holding back tears.

Lucky
A story about a very lucky man
Black North
Black North was made to nip at the heels of Light itself. In the seven years since the discovery of Karat, humanities greatest minds have worked tirelessly towards her creation. Black North would be humanities masterpiece, and the Commander their herald to the stars.
She was as black as night, as black as Karat some would say, paying homage to her unforeseeable future out in the void. She would run on nuclear fusion, the most powerful form of energy known to man. Although they would never be able to match the energy levels of the Sun, humanities miniature stars could power Black North for centuries. Her cargo hold was enormous. There was only one person going on this mission, and that was exactly the point. He would need all the supplies he could get, seeing as he would be all alone on his mission to push the boundaries of humanities influence. There was enough supplies to support a crew of four for one hundred years, more than the Commander could possibly need. A garden of sorts was also aboard the ship. The Commander could potentially grow food such as potatoes in the garden, but its main purpose was to recycle the oxygen aboard Black North. It was an imperfect process, but it was one less thing the Commander would have to worry about. He could breathe freely, and would not have to spend all his time in stasis.
With the Commanders journey upon them, the scientists who had worked on Black North gathered to marvel at her one last time. She was quite the sight to behold, and many were downhearted at the thought of never seeing her again. Their depressed mood was soon broken, however, as the Commander stepped through the automatic sliding doors that led to the hanger. There he stood, tall and strong. The man who would bear the weight of humanities fears, their curiosities, their dreams. He was the harbinger of the new lords of the sky, and Black North was his mighty steed.


Black North
Chapter 2. Black North is created. The Commander embarks on his voyage.
Regret in the Void
Face to face with the abyss, every moment becomes an epiphany.
All that you sacrificed, everything you ignored, you’re thinking… if you could do it all again, you would do it different.
Classic.
You try to reason, empathize with your former self to understand why you made the decisions you did. Find the clarity and confidence that you once felt. If you went back, would you make the same decision again, it’s what you wanted after all.
What was I thinking.
Your heart is in your throat as you try to think back to the moments that stand out, and the ones that blur together. Ones that you can still feel and others you can barely recall. Its almost painful the truth that you now realize. The steps you took in stride, the ones that got you where you are right now, fade into the surrounding dark. The steps you took for granted, the ones that made you who you are, grip you as if they too are trapped inside this suit.
How did this happen.
It’s all a blur, dwarfed by the regrets running rampant through your mind. Somehow you made it out alive. A blessing. A curse. You settle on the latter. This never happens, never should have happened.
How does that help me now.
You attempt to find the beauty of your current situation. It did take bravery, it will have an impact, they will be proud.
At what cost.
You knew the risks and still proceeded without a second thought. Even after they pleaded for you to stay… send someone else, they begged. How you reacted to their protests, unable to see the true reason behind their resistance.
What was it that blinded you.
You would like to think it was the passion, the curiosity and drive to discover. There is no denying, fame played a larger role than you care to admit. To be another first and join the ranks of those who inspired you.
Consumed you.
It dawns on you for the first time, all those who tried and failed before you. The ones whose name no one remembers, you wonder if they had regrets, if they would have done it differently.
Major Tom to ground control…
You’re not stepping anywhere. Each breath is getting more difficult and your legs are getting cold. The fan in your helmet is quietly humming, yet the fog on the inside of your visor remains.
If only I could see something… a Star, a cloud, their smile.
Moving faster than a speeding bullet yet you feel incredibly still, gently floating through this cosmic ocean.
You proclaim aloud as if ground control is still listening, a warning to all those that are destined to follow…
Not even the void of space can shelter you from your regrets.

Regret in the Void
Face to face with the abyss, every moment becomes an epiphany.
All that you sacrificed, everything you ignored, you’re thinking… if you could do it all again, you would do it different.
Classic.

Larks and Owls
The loudspeaker on the decrepit carriage buzzes with distortion. “This train will depart in one minute.”
Dawn and Eve embrace on the platform. Dawn is in floods of tears, her head buried in Eve’s chest. Despite Eve’s distress at the imminent parting, she can’t help but notice the disapproving frowns of their fellow passengers. It’s early morning, and the larks are beginning their commute. They give the couple a wide berth. The caste differences are obvious — Dawn’s healthy glow and shabby apparel contrast sharply to Eve’s cadaverous pallor and immaculate threads.
Forty-five seconds left, Eve calculates.
She nestles her face in Dawn’s hair, smelling her clean, unperfumed scent. She inhales deeply as if she can capture a part of Dawn forever within her. Eve lifts her head, hoping to distract her thoughts from the inevitable. This proves futile.
Thirty seconds left.
Their first encounter was on a train like this one, barely a year ago. Eve had sat in the gloom of the dimly-lit carriage, gazing dully at energy-efficiency propaganda.
Shift work works! was the slogan of one poster. Eve loathed the faux jollity, the desperate — and doomed — attempt to enthuse dead-eyed commuters about the broken system they laboured under. Broken, but necessary. The transport and energy infrastructure of the Sprawl simply couldn’t handle the strain of so many concurrent users.
Another showed a group of wan looking young men and women laughing and drinking beer. Night owls have a hoot! Transfer today. The night shift paid a lot more, but it was still not enough to tempt many. The population split was fifty-five percent larks. Most owls were conscripted, or had been born into it like Eve.
The train was half-empty — it was still early for most larks. Eve was a little drunk, having gone for Friday drinks after work. She could feel the heat of the larks’ glares as she walked clumsily down the carriage in search of a seat. Eve approached an empty berth, but the man sitting next to it picked up his bag from the floor as she neared and put it beside him. Eve sighed wearily and moved on. Every free seat was taken in the same way by larks who pretended not to see her.
Until Dawn. Eve hovered hesitantly by the free seat next to Dawn, expecting the same response. But Dawn just looked up with an open and beautiful shy smile. Eve sat down. As she did so, her fingers accidentally brushed against Dawn’s warm, bare arm, and a tingle ran up Eve’s spine.
Twenty seconds left.
Eve worked late every night the next week, heading home on the train at the same time as that first night, hoping for another glimpse of Dawn. She encountered nothing but dirty looks and passive aggression. On Thursday morning she fell asleep on the train, exhausted by her long week and fruitless search. She woke at the end of the line. The edge of the Sprawl. By now it was off-peak hours for both larks and owls, so there was an hour to kill before the return train. Eve wandered the streets of what was scarcely more than a village, a quaint cat’s cradle of crooked streets and low houses of ancient stone, frozen in time. The only shops open were cafes and those selling outdoor supplies. The possibilities of the town were exhausted after half an hour, so Eve sat down outside a cafe and ordered a coffee.
A young man sat down at the table next to hers. He had a scrubby beard and dark shadows under his eyes, and wore a heavy-duty coat and a bulging rucksack, both clearly brand-new and top-of-the-line. Obviously an owl, as were most of those who chose to leave.
“Are you going today?” asked the man, gesturing with a glance towards the thick forest that represented the edge of the Sprawl. The edge of civilisation.
Eve shook her head. “Not today,” she said. The man looked disappointed. No-one returned to the Sprawl having left, so it was no wonder that most preferred to leave with a travelling partner.
The man left, and Eve was alone once more, oriented with her back to the grey Sprawl that shimmered on the horizon like a leaden mirage. She stared at the darkly verdant wilderness that loomed on all other sides. These hills had once been bare: sheep-grazed, barren and latticed by dry-stone walls, an unnatural facsimile of nature. Now they were truly returned to nature, sublime and forbidding. All except for a cleared area on the side of the hill which exposed to view a huge and ancient glyph, carved into the chalk of the hill millennia ago, and still maintained by unknown persons. Out here on the edge, perhaps lost traditions exerted almost as much gravity as the distant core of the Sprawl.
The chalk symbol was a simple one. A sun, with a crescent moon nestled tightly against its curved body. A pagan symbol of natural cycles, perhaps. Eve stared at the hill until her train was due. She slept as she travelled through the endless Sprawl, arriving back at the core just in time for her next shift.
The work night passed in a dull, tired haze, and then it was Friday morning. Eve took the train home and dozed gently. Then there she was. Dawn sat down across the carriage, and Eve jolted into alertness. For half an hour they stole glances at one another, their hearts fluttering and faces flushing when their gazes happened to briefly lock.
Eve was staring at her feet, embarrassed after one such moment, when their awkwardly coy game was interrupted by a rough hand on her shoulder.
“Move,” said the man next to her, gruffly. He pointed at a pregnant woman who had just boarded the train. “She needs your seat.”
Eve got up, half voluntarily and half pushed by the man. She squeezed by the pregnant woman, who swept past imperiously and sat down, thanking the man as she did so.
Eve seethed with bottled rage. A moment ago she had been oblivious to the rest of the carriage. Now she was acutely aware that she was the only owl in a crush of larks who were all radiating animosity.
“You could have given up your own seat,” said Dawn quietly.
The man looked incredulous. “This is our time,” he said slowly and precisely, as if talking to a child. Dawn let out an exasperated sigh and got up, pushing her way towards Eve. Over Dawn’s shoulder, Eve saw the man looking perplexed, even a little wounded.
“You did the right thing,” the pregnant woman told him. “You shouldn’t have had to say anything. She should have known. But they don’t know any better, do they?” She pursed her lips with distaste. “Not as sharp. I read that their melatonin levels are screwed up. Broken circadian rhythms. That has to have an effect on the brain, right?”
Dawn reached Eve. Their eyes met once more, and this time neither looked away.
“I’m Dawn.”
“Eve.”
They smiled and rolled their eyes. They had both been christened with the most traditional names possible for their respective castes, classic names chosen by parents who were proud of their places in the system and wished their children to embody it.
Neither Dawn nor Eve appreciated the sentiment.
Fifteen seconds left.
Love blossomed in the interstices between day and night. They swapped novels, exchanged music playlists, and shared videos and dumb memes. They laughed over in-jokes, spoke of their passions, and discussed their hopes and dreams. The one thing they did not discuss was what future they might have together. It didn’t matter at first; there was something magical about their stolen moments in the dawn and dusk. But as time went on they wanted more. More time together. More of what could not be. Eve could not ask Dawn to give up her family and friends to become an owl, nor would she wish the ill-health effects of the night shift upon her. Yet while larks remained more numerous, Eve could not legally transfer. Out of love for Dawn, Eve gave her a future.
She ended it.
Five seconds left.
And now here they are. Eve gently disentangles herself and kisses Dawn one last time. Eve steps onto the train and stands by the door. A tear rolls down her cheek.
One second left.
Dawn leaps onto the train just as the doors close. She squeezes Eve tight.
“What are you doing?” says Eve with consternation, tinged with secret delight.
“I’m coming with you,” says Dawn with a look of determination in her tear-reddened eyes. “Or rather, you’re coming with me.”
“Where to?” says Eve, confused.
“End of the line,” says Dawn. “I want to see that chalk carving on the hill you told me about. Then beyond.”
Eve says nothing for a moment. When she does speak, it’s cautiously. “You understand that no-one comes back?”
“I know,” says Dawn with a feigned nonchalance that is betrayed by her trembling hands. “Maybe they die out there. Maybe we’ll die out there. But maybe they discover something else. A different way of living. Maybe that’s why no-one comes back.”
Eve is doubtful. She thinks that if anyone does live outside the Sprawl, they live as troglodytes, without power or technology. And she further suspects that these hypothetical societies, should they discover them, will be riven by injustice in their own unique ways; it’s human nature to seek opposition and the Other.
Yet her doubts and cynicism melt away when Dawn pulls her tight and whispers with strained hope in her ear: “Say yes?”
“Yes,” says Eve softly. Somewhat to her surprise, she realises that she means it. Better to seize a free life with the one you love in the harsh light of day, than to grasp at an ordained existence in the shadows of the gloaming.

Larks and Owls
Society will always find ways to divide. People will always find ways to unite.
R is for Rocket
That’s no Sun….
Hong Kong, China
Zhao Family Apartment 
[07/21/2097]
local time: 1:35 am
Children come quick!!
Jumping down the steps two at a time, they filed into the living room to catch what was to be their first Launch. This was the first time their parents had allowed them to stay up to watch the event on TV, and the day could not have come any sooner. All the stories they had heard from their older friends could now be put to rest… the glowing sky… the trembling ground, even the gullible minds possessed by the young were not naive enough to accept these claims as true. Hesitant with doubt yet consumed with curiosity, the kids prayed for the day when they would finally be allowed to experience first-hand what they had heard so much about. Sitting close and eyes fixed to the screen, they were ready to document all the details of a world so foreign to their own. Having already experienced a Launch, the parents calmly sat back taking enjoyment from the nascent wonder in each of the children’s eyes.
The program began. A wavering flag, red white and blue, dominated the screen as the Star Spangled Banner blared from the TV’s speakers. A proud moment, not only for the Americans but for the entire planet. The two adults couldn’t help but grin at the achievement of the human race. Launch day brought all who watched a sense of pride as we reached ever farther into the heavens. When the anthem had finished, the flag disappeared and the camera focused in on a sign which appeared to be mounted to the base of a large concrete building.
Kennedy Space Center — Launch Complex 81- A
Cape Canaveral, United States of America
Mixed in with sounds of rushing wind and squawking gulls, whistles and cheers were roaring from a crowd hidden from those watching on TV. The camera began to zoom out, revealing to the viewers the true identity of the structure to which the sign was mounted. Quiet gasps erupted from each child as one by one, the rumors were slowly verified. Floating just above the sign, forty-two giant rocket engines hung gleaming in the Sun from the bottom of a metallic tower.
The Rocket.
Panning up, the camera rolled over the assembly with a pace that delivered the immense scale of the day’s feature presentation. Through the clouds of vapor streaming down from top of the vehicle, giant blue letters could be made out.
S
P
A
C
E
X
“SpaceX” the parents read aloud for the kids. The name sparked dreams of the future… a future where Earthlings have spread out into the Universe exploring the sweet void of the Cosmos.
A timer appeared at the top corner of the screen.
T — 00 : 03 : 00
Giggles from the children, creeping ever closer to the screen. On the TV, not a soul in sight. The majestic beast stood erect, stirring in it’s cryogenic sleep surrounded by a barren coastline. Oh how the children would love to go and see the Rocket with their own eyes. A trip to America?… the desolate landscape surrounding the spaceship was not lost on this desire. The camera seemed careful not to stray, but glimpses of scorched earth and a fouled ocean shoreline dampened the smiles on their faces.
T — 00 : 01 : 30
The Rocket began to tremble. Audible through the TV, the low hum of a million parts beginning to wake from their deep slumber. Overwhelmed with excitement, the children swore they could feel the ground shake. Unconsciously, the father gently slid his cup of tea away from the edge of the table.
T — 00 : 00 : 30
One by one, the engines slowly sprang to life, building up enough thrust to push off and away from the planet. To the children, each engine as bright as a Star. The Rocket now rested comfortably on top a bed of fire, stretching its legs, aching to be let go.
Children look!…
T — 00 : 00 : 09
Shadows from the flowers on the window sill were growing across the floor.
T — 00 : 00 : 04
The night sky no longer dark rather a premature dawn painted the Eastern horizon, over-powering the Moon in its attempt to shed some light on the shadow of the night.
T — 00 : 00 : 00
The Rocket broke free. Tearing away from the mechanical clamps that strained to contain it.
T + 00 : 00 : 14
Visibly, the battle was tough. The Rocket struggling to overcome Earth’s Newtonian tug, it lurched forward with a pace that made it appear to hover.
T + 00 : 00 : 52
Pushing through the atmosphere, the Rocket was on its way. Crackling and gimbaling, a freshly formed cloud trailing in its wake. Looking out the window, the Eastern horizon now resembled a mid-day sky, one which forgot to rise with the Sun.
T + 00 : 08 : 21
As the kids sauntered off to their rooms, exhausted from the adrenaline fix they had just received, the Rocket had one more dose to deliver. It came first with a low rumble, the children now sure they were feeling something. From all directions their world began to shake. A current of fear and joy swam through the children as they daringly tried to stand up, screaming…
Look!! No hands!!…
Car alarms blaring in the distance, it disappeared as quickly as it had arrived. With an abrupt stop, the final departure of the rocket was signaled with the sound of the tea cup shattering on the floor.
Jacksonville, Florida, United States of America
Launch Complex 81-A
[07/20/2097]
local time: 12:35 pm
Children come quick!!
Jumping down the steps two at a time, they filed into the elevator to hide from what was to be their first Launch. This was the first time their parents had allowed them to stay up on the surface this close to Launch, and the day had crept up on them much too fast. All the stories they had heard from their older friends would now be put to rest… the endless caves… the Earth-splitting quakes. Driven by curiosity yet consumed with fear, the kids prayed the day would never come when they would witness first-hand what they had heard so much about. Tightly packed in the service elevator with hands squeezed tight by their parents, they were hardly ready to document the details of an event so widely feared. Having already experienced a launch, the parents anxiously stood next to their kin, taking no comfort from the nascent wonder in each of the children’s eyes.
As the elevator accelerated down into the Earth, ambient light fading and the air becoming cooler, no longer could the children hear the squawk of the gulls or the familiar crash of the ocean tide. The parents held tight to their fidgeting children, warning sirens still ringing in their ears. They knew full well that even with all the evacuation procedures in place, safety was no guarantee.
The elevator came to a stop with the doors opening to reveal a vast subterranean shelter. Quiet gasps erupted from each child as one by one, the rumors were slowly verified. Stepping out into the foyer, the children got their first glimpse of the underground world whose only purpose was to shelter them from the Terror above. Unable to see the far end of the cave, the atmosphere was noticeably heavy with a mixture of naivete and agitation.
They were directed to their bunk area located somewhere off along the far wall of the shelter. As they walked along the path, they passed the spectator pavilion. A windowed terminal furnished with seats, loud speakers and TV screens lining the walls. Packed with only adults, cheers and whistles emanated from the room as they looked on at the Rocket, their life’s work waiting quietly up on the surface, ready to be released.
A spectacle to some, a terror for others. For the latter, “the ultimate sacrifice to ensure humans continue to spread the seeds of life throughout the Universe”… so they were told. Not everyone wanted to live such a noble life.
A deep voice echoed throughout the shelter, calling out the countdown.
T — 00 : 03 : 00
Whimpers from the children, creeping ever closer to their parents. The majestic beast stood above, stirring in it’s cryogenic sleep surrounded by their barren home. Oh how the parents would love to go and escape this madness. To live a life not dominated by the Rocket, waiting weeks for the fallout to pass only to surface and start again. A trip to China?… as far from this life as possible, they wouldn’t even know where to begin.
T — 00 : 01 : 30
The Rocket began to shake the Earth. Through the leagues of soil above them, the collective scream of a million parts began to wake from their deep slumber. Overwhelmed with fear, the children swore the ground was about to shake apart. Consciously, the father gently pulled his child in close to shield them from what was to come.
T — 00 : 00 : 30
One by one, the engines slowly sprang to life, building up enough thrust to push off and away from the planet. To the children, each igniting engine a new nightmare. The rocket now rested comfortably on top a bed of fire, stretching its leg, aching to be let go.
Children look!…
T — 00 : 00 : 09
The parents directed their gaze to meet their own eyes, hoping to project a sense of comfort and safety.
T — 00 : 00 : 04
Their vision no longer defined but a constant blur, faces indistinguishable from the next. Rather then the distinct sound of a Rocket launching up above, Armageddon deafened all.
T — 00 : 00 : 00
The monster broke free. Tearing away from the mechanical clamps that strained to contain it.
T + 00 : 00 : 14
Physically, the battle was tough. The Rocket struggling to overcome Earth’s Newtonian tug, its plume smashing against the Earth’s surface and all those who hid below.
T + 00 : 00 : 38
Pushing through the atmosphere, the Rocket was on its way. Crackling and gimbaling, a toxic cloud trailing in its wake. From the spectator room, only a black Earth could be seen on the TV.
T + 03 : 56 : 21
As the kids sauntered off to their bunks, exhausted from the adrenaline fix they had just received, the Rocket administered a continuous dose. The tremors lingered for the remainder of the day, the children unable to remember days when the Earth was calm. From all directions their world shook. A current of fear and exhaustion swam through the children as they tried to ignore the tremors, pleading…
Mom!! Make it stop!!…
Recovery alarms blaring in the distance, it disappeared as slowly as the tide retreats. With a gradual fade, the final departure of the rocket was signaled with the sound of weeping, children and parents alike.

R is for Rocket
A spectacle for some, a terror for others.
The Best Radio in the Universe
Source
The alien octopod spun several dials on the intergalactic radio. Like a small star, the sphere glowed a soft blue hue floating above the cockpit controls. The octopod waved a free tentacle back at the engineer, “Can’t you hear it?”
“Nope, still can’t hear it. Like I said, the signal died as soon as I laid my hands on it.” She rolled her head from one shoulder to the other, “Listen, if you’re not going to eat me and you’re so bent on playing your dumb intergalactic radio for me can you at least remove this sludge? My arms are falling asleep.”
“Why should I trust a thief? You’ll stay there for now.” Static crackled and the octopod waived all of its tentacles at once. “Shhh, wait, shut up, Leanna. I swear, this is the best radio in the entire universe. Can’t you hear it? It’s covered in static, but I can make out something wonderful behind it all.”
The octopod continued spinning knobs, pressing buttons, and flipping switches. The radio blinked and bounced up and down like a fishing bobber. The octopod nodded its head to some silent tune. A jolt of static would come through the speakers and the octopod would inflate it’s bulbous head in excitement. “Yes, this is it. We’re close. I think I love this one”
Leanna stared up at ceiling and sighed, “still nothing.”
“Are you sure you didn’t drop my radio?” The octopod floated over to Leanna.
“No,” she stretched her neck forward, “Again, I picked up a dull signal on my ship and went looking for what was producing it. I grabbed your ‘radio’ from that super weird geometric place you call a home. Then if you remember, you jumped out sneezing everywhere — scared me — no offense and I flew off in my ship. Are you sure you didn’t break it?”
“What’s wrong with my home? Meanwhile, you like to follow dull signals in your free time? Quit deflecting space burglar.” The octopod sneezed some gelatinous ooze from it’s mouth between it’s tentacles. “Do you think you’re some sort of great adventurer? Stop fooling yourself.” The octopod leaned in close to Leanna. Rows of vertical eyes spun and blinked like lazy eyes. It was hard to tell which one was looking at her. “I’ve been traveling amongst the stars for thousands of years and its always worked. Lately, it’s been a little off but I’m fairly certain you’re to blame for these recent malfunctions,” a wet tentacle bopped her on the nose.
Leanna cringed and spat. “Listen you — ,”
“Call me Reese,” it belched.
Leanna, cocked her head and continued, “Okay, Reese, if we’re going to talk about how we spend our free time, you’ve spent the better part of an earth day trying to tune me into your dumb radio. Who ever said I wanted to hear it? Don’t you have friends?”
Reese slapped several tentacles onto the cockpit’s controls, shattering screens and radars in the process. Sparks flew and reflected off its rows of eyes. “When your my age, Leanna, friends don’t make much sense? Do they?” It sneezed. Gelatinous mucous was beginning to pool. “You might understand if you’ve lived as long as Reese.”
Leanna’s dangling legs stood still in her gooey cocoon. Leanna was presently lost in every sense of the word. At this point it was hard to tell if it was the man she loved or the self she left behind. The overly intelligent octopod named Reese seemed trivial. Deep space could be lonesome, barren, and cruel, but it was in the solitude the hard truths she hoped to find would at some point emerge.
“Since you stole my artifact,” Reese continued, “you’ll learn how to appreciate it.”
Leanna exhaled, “Alright,” she gazed and Reese spun its swirling eyes back at her. “Can I help?” she asked.
Reese’s tentacles drummed across the cockpit’s floor closing the gap between it and Leanna. A boiling hiss filled the air and black mist dissipated from below Reese’s tentacles. The goo surrounding Leanna crystallized and shattered into small emerald gems along the floor.
Reese returned to the radio inviting Leanna along with a waving tentacle.
Leanna stared at the floating galactic radio bobbing up and down above her partially destroyed control panel. Reese shuffled over to share the radio with her. A soft droning hum began to play.
Reese made a noise somewhere between a ‘shlrrrrr’ and a squeak. Its head expanded and contracted. “Something is happening!” Reese sang. Its eyes blinked and strobed fluorescent pink.
Leanna joined Reese and pinched one knob and began to tune the radio when a strange sensation rushed over her. “I can’t see!” she pleaded.
The darkness turned to a blurry gray and an image came into focus. Leanna saw a bouquet of daffodils and a letter on her kitchen counter. A familiar song hummed in her ear. She knew the day and felt the warm embrace of another.
But the vision went as quickly as it came transporting her elsewhere. She was suddenly on her bicycle riding through her hometown. Other senses were overcome by the warmth of the summer sun biting her skin and the smell of curbside trash. Vehicles drove by and left a trail of summer radio hits in their wake.
A carousel of memories continued to flood her senses. Bagpipes, black gowns, and epitaphs under a veil of blue. Instrumentals in her space shuttle cockpit sipping salty cups of noodles on the couch in her underwear. Cereal advertisements from her childhood coupled with wooden swingsets, bleeding knees, building blocks, and toy gorillas.
When it ended she was alone. Reese was gone and so was the radio. The spaceship’s engine idled and the silence of the universe was deafening. Her heart overflowed and through watery eyes Leanna stared out through the dark expanse thinking.
“Wow, that really is the best radio in the universe.”
The Best Radio in the Universe

The alien octopod spun several dials on the intergalactic radio. Like a small star, the sphere glowed a…
¡La Leyenda de El Super Pobre! or, What happened to Marco Zavala.
Picking up from where page 18 left off…
As the men, clad in their best orange surgical wear, turned their attention away from the smoking heap of miniature machinery and towards Marco, one of them noticed the supine body jolt.
“Did you-”
He couldn’t finish his sentence.
Marco shot up and looked around. The room he was in bore a peaked green light and was cold. A thin air of lifelessness passed fluidly over his skin. In several increasingly natural motions he removed the sheet that rested on his legs and went to stand.
“Water…” the sounds coming from Marco’s mouth were nothing more than cliffs crumbling in an undersea trench.
“What did he say?” Alfonso el Arbol, the tall and oaken capo in a shimmering mother-of-pearl mask, asked for clarification.
“He needs water. Fetch it,” Xavier, The Man with the burro-on-a-rope, stood in the doorway.
With utmost haste, Alfonso retrieved a glass from a mounted metal cabinet and filled it from a pink water-producing orchid that grew out of the wall nearby.
Marco accepted the glass and felt vitality return with each anxious gulp.
“More.”
Xavier nodded.
Alfonso provided.
“Can you fight?” Xavier, utilizing his infamous tobacco-crisp voice, wasted no time.
Marco finished his second glass of enlivening water and took a breath. His memory and his senses were clunky and misshapen, but they were there. Somewhat.
“…I think so,” Marco felt his body metabolizing and participating in the minimum actions necessary to remain extant. But he also felt a new, detached, middle ground where his consciousness now seemed to reside. His body was his, and he could still command every extremity; there was now simply an entire extra layer.
“Padron, what about…” Alfonso tapped on the right half of his skull, indicating the hunk of flesh missing from Marco’s head.
“Hm, if you’ll notice, ‘fonso, there is no bleeding,” Xavier was right. Marco now touched the open wound near his crown and noticed no pain, no cold clotting redness.
“This is El Sueño Real. Marco here, cannot die,” Xavier cleared his throat and took out a jade and gold cigarette case from his inner jacket pocket. From his outer pocket he slid out a cylindrical butane torch lighter. The others in the room had no choice but to be content with waiting. Utilizing his right thumb, the nail painted a luminous chartreuse, he activated the microtorch. Alfonso, standing diagonally across from Xavier, focused on the hi-hat clicking away in the low music that hung around like a nervous fog. The constant drum-n-bass rhythm kept his heart rate in check. Enrique “La Lluvia Plaga” Fuentes-Patel never set down the enormous hypodermic needle he routinely used to extract spinal fluid. He stood opposite Alfonso El Arbol in a sickly spinach and day-glow yellow mask. The color scheme did an excellent job of concealing the sweat born from a healthy fear of both Xavier and the dark sciences.
“More accurately,” Xavier resumed after a deep initial draw. “He is now unkilled. The old woman on the omnibus bestowed this ‘gift’ upon him. The wound will heal, and Marco, you will fight.”
The men other than Xavier all digested the new information.
“…Is it a curse?” Marco asked.
“No, there is no magic here. This is the product of Ciencia Negra: Nanobots that work by consuming and replacing the host’s synapse at the moment of death. It is at that point where the electrical impulses in the brain become weak enough for the bots to usurp and then modify them with their own signals. Their signals are then amplified to a higher degree, which in turn enables total, and endless, organ reconstruction facilitated by the host’s own stem-cells.” Xavier paused to take another drag.
The weight of the information bore down on three of the four minds in the room for several seconds. The thought of being snatched from death only to live on as an ever-regenerating vegetable only bolstered the imposing dread Xavier was emitting.
“That old woman,” Xavier casually continued, “dropped out of La Academia after being caught with the corpse of her lover and several regulated chemicals in a compromising position.
“Now she wanders the Americas, turning people like Marco here into the non-dying… attraction he has become. My husks are not illegal and they provide the globe with needed crops; plus they all signed the contract. But her… she preys on the unsuspecting and afflicts them with an unending existence.”
The words echoed in Marco’s mind. He remembered the mosquito-like face and the jangling sound of her charms as she walked towards him. Her scarlet shawl and green eye shadow were burned into his memory.
Just then, Marco realized it had been over 24 hours since he last ate.
“I’m… I don’t feel hungry…”
“Ah, yes,” Xavier continued to convey his expertise in between belches of smoke. “You will now only require water. I captured and opened one of her zombies that had run afoul of my men. Essentially, all of your organs have been reprogrammed and food simply has no place left to be processed. The water keeps things lubricated and oxygenated, but that’s about it.”
Marco instantly missed, but felt no hunger for, his mother’s samosa tacos.
“Now, I return to my original query: Can you fight?”
Marco finally noticed his reflection. His skin was a grayish-brown. The wound on his head closed as he gawked. When he raised his hand to feel it once more, Xavier spoke again.
“Yes, you will heal uncomfortably fast.”
“My family…”
“Thinks you died trying to provide for them. You poor man…” Xavier quietly withdrew to his mind for a matter of seconds. “That will be your ring name: El Super Pobre.”
“El Super Pobre…”
For a time, all four men stood in the morgue/necrotic surgery center in silence.
“Your first match will be in Otompan, tomorrow,” Xavier broke the silence as if it were a hardboiled egg. “I’ll take care of your transportation, but because of your condition, you’ll have to fight in the tent only from now on. I simply cannot have paying customers behold such a spectacle as the one you will be expected to put on.”
The tent? Marco thought. His own boyhood memories of Xavier’s infamous free tent shows had been clear up until his arrival into his current condition. Now all he could remember about the shows was the raucous and feverish din of the crowd. The more he thought the more items trickled back into existence.
The ring was wooden and unforgiving.
The ‘ref’ was usually inebriated.
There was no security, doctors, or weapons scanners beyond the spiteful eyes of Xavier’s Brazeros, Capos, and husks. The men fortunate enough to still have their sentience were only on duty at these shows as a means of atonement for some sin committed against Xavier.
In short, the shows were more a controlled riot than a public exhibition of a heritage sport.
Marco nodded in silence and fixed his gaze on another dead luchador on a slab nearby. This man had died in the match before his; the man, a general manager, was caught red-handed, stealing from the register at a Slick Saxon franchise Xavier happened to own. He was kidnapped in the middle of the night, from his own bed, forced to sign The Contract, given a dirty lucha libre mask, and sent to the ring. His organs were in Aztec themed jade canopic jars. The macabre and beautiful vessels all faced the man and served as a mute audience to his conversion.
Marco now noticed a cold unctuous feeling in the rear of his sinus. His eyes felt like they nestled in sand.
“You’ll never sleep again, either,” Xavier calmly informed Marco. The donkey, silent for the entire exchange up to this point, continued his soundlessness.
“So what do I-”
“You’ll figure something out. Tonight, I have something you can occupy your time with.”
“Okay,” Marco felt something he couldn’t define slowly slipping away from him. It was in the rear base of his brain. It was a tremendous pool draining through a little red cocktail straw; slow, but certain. He felt he should care about just occupying his time, but the more he tried, the faster the pool drained.
*
When Marco next decided to speak, he was being led through a field, barefoot. A chain jangled and clanged. He looked down, and discovered it was connected to him. To his neck, to be specific. Link by link, he followed his tether until he saw its mooring.
Marco was leashed to a heaving mountain of a hippopotamus. The stinking loaf trotted through a field of wild and randomly placed agave. On its back, a little person, afflicted with eyebrows like sea cucumbers, held the reigns.
An agave frond viciously raked Marco’s leg.
He didn’t care anymore.
The moon was titanic in its opalescence.
“W-where…” Marco tried to speak. His throat was tar and rayon.
“Callate muertido…”
Marco never figured out that, when Xavier said he’d take care of his transportation, and that he had something to occupy his time with, he meant the current situation.
The hippopotamus relieved herself in-stride and Marco trod through it.
His feet were now cold and muddy, but his energy was unceasing.
“Water… w-water…”
The hippopotamus came to a stop. The little man swore and motioned for Marco to approach. At the fourth behest, Marco lurched forward, his mouth agape behind the opening in his lucha libre mask. The little man unscrewed the cap from a metal canteen and poured the mineralized water directly into the slit.
Everything gained a few values in color.
“Orale, vamanos…”
The little man overcame the burden his eyebrows placed on him and clicked his tongue. The hippopotamus grunted and resumed a brisk pace.
Fifty-five kilometers.
Dawn broke over the horizon and the sliced grapefruit sky dethroned all that ruled Marco’s consciousness.
*
When he next had a trace of wit, he was no longer behind the odious behemoth.
Instead of a halved ruby red grapefruit, the sun was now a hot and pernicious egg yolk.
Marco did not sweat.
Yolk… Yoke?
Marco was pulling a cart.
No, it just felt like it. His body was heavy, but his engine showed no signs of let up.
A massive bluebottle fly collided with Marco’s forehead before buzzing off, absconding with Marco’s attention.
Hours passed.
Marco came around at the end of the day when he was led by a roadie to a heaving H2Orchid. Marco gulped and inhaled the water gushing from the large and unusual bloom. The sun disappeared, but twilight remained.
Marco was pulled from the growth and led to the tent he had unknowingly helped to erect. He was eventually deposited in the dressing area: several folding chairs and crates behind a makeshift curtain wall. He was sat down and sternly told to stay put until his match.
A thin glaze formed over Marco’s eyes. From his post, he had an excellent view of the ring and the entrance flap.
The construct filled with revelers. The other luchadors also appeared and began their warm-ups. Each fighter was alerted beforehand to Marco’s condition and responded accordingly; he was left completely, and entirely, alone.
The matches began.
In between, a local comedic duo consisting of an obese yet sharp-witted husband bantering with his near-deaf wife kept things wet.
The time came for Marco to make his entrance.
The same roadie who had been tasked with leading Marco from odd job to odd job arrived.
“Your entrance is special…”
Marco was led outside, where he caught a glimpse of himself in a puddle of unknown liquid. He was shirtless and bore a noose that dangled down to around his navel. He was still barefoot, but at least he had filthy knee-length trunks on. His mask was dingy and reminded the roadie of a dumpster stain.
Outside the tent, the wind picked up and distorted the emitting sounds.
“…El Super Pobre!…”
“Show time…”
The roadie kicked Marco into the tent, where the entire assembled mass broke into a chorus of boos.
“Disgusting!”
“Vile!”
Rotten fruit and vegetables bounced off of him. A man stood and slapped Marco across the face, knocking him to the ground. He was pulled back up only to be spit on, laughed at, cursed, and then shot by an elderly woman.
The needling and gnarled crone had shrieked from behind a black veil as she squeezed the trigger of the .38 Saturday Night Special.
The bullet lodged itself in his AC joint, disabling his left arm. He felt no pain, bled no blood, but resented the loss of function as best he could.
The shock of lead-based penetration caused a wave of confusion to wash over him. The roadie swore and rolled him under the tired ropes and into the wood and canvas contraption that served as a ring.
The bell rang.
His opponent, another local by the name of Inocente, immediately suplexed Marco, much to the delight of the crowd. He sprang back up and basked in the cheers.
Marco rolled onto his knees, only to catch a leg-drop-bulldog to the back of his head. The ring floor was hard and unyielding.
Inocente hauled Marco to his feet, slapped him, chopped his chest several times, then sent him to the ropes via an Irish whip. He wound up and delivered a punishing clothesline. Marco did a complete flip and landed on his back.
The crowd was in fits.
Inocente grabbed Marco’s noose and tightened it. His eye’s bulged and he temporarily lost his hearing.
Marco was paraded around the ring like a dog for several seconds.
Inocente scooped up Marco, raked his eyes, then sent him to the turnbuckle. With Marco safely corralled, he then began a vigorous and outlandish showboat display.
Marco, from his anchorage in the corner, decided he was done with the match. Exactly how he could express his concise desire for cessation would not manifest. Only the will for it to stop could be felt.
Marco stoked the flames of this will. He had no idea, not an inkling, of how he could fight back with a dead arm and a mind full of steel wool.
But the will was palpable.
Inocente blathered on about his virility.
This match… will stop!
The ropes shook.
No… more!
Marco was catapulted forward onto his face.
All four top turnbuckles popped free. Their potential energy now kinetic, the turnbuckles silently flew into Inocente. The metal clasps that ultimately gave the top ring rope its tension all came smashing into his skull.
With both men down in the ring, the short and fear-soaked referee began a wobbly ten count.
“Diez…”
“Nueve…”
“Ocho…”
Marco stirred.
“Siete…”
“Seis…”
The deep and meaningful boos from the crowd intensified.
“Cinco…”
“Quattro…”
“Tres…”
“Dos…”
Marco squirted from his spot on the mat and landed an arm across Inocente’s chest. The referee abandoned the ten-count, fell to his knees, and with his petite hand, he gave the match-ending three-count.
Marco, El Super Pobre, was victorious.
The people, were furious.
The roadie appeared again. He grabbed Marco by the only means he could, his noose.
The crowd was attempting to rush the ring, but Xavier’s beautifully suited men were keeping them in the stands.
“That was some trick you pulled with the ropes! How did you do that?” The roadie asked, halfway knowing that Marco wouldn’t be able to articulate a satisfactory answer.
“I… wanted it to happen…” The words fell out of Marco’s mouth like a slow vomit.
The roadie was silent, miffed by the response. In the decade he had been handling these muertidos, as they were called, he had witnessed similar events and had been given similar explanations. Two years earlier, he watched in horror as a muertido killed a popular county luchador by making the ring collapse inward. Just nine months before meeting Marco, the roadie ran from an eerie white fire that a muertido survived without a singe.
Whatever that haggard old woman who rules the routes of the Mexico City omnibus uses to unkill these men apparently came with a range of telekinetic side effects. The roadie, Jose Cervantes Chong, sent a pigeon to Xavier, explaining the events. In response, Jose was told to let the legends grow; the more fantastic the accounts, the stronger Xavier’s own mythos became.
As time would go on, Marco, unlike the other muertidos, somehow managed to keep little bits of his mind and personality intact. The ring blowing apart in his first match was no fluke, and Marco honed this new ability. During moments of wakefulness, he would fix his gaze on, say, a fence, and marvel as the wood and metal components would spring into pieces. His abilities stopped there, however. If an object is made of metal and wood, he could cause it to come undone, but that was it.
As of the Mataluchadores murders, Marco was still spreading the Xavier doctrine in the Latin American countryside and winning matches by destroying parts of the ring each time.
He never gets cold.
He never hungers.
He’ll never die.
Marco ‘El Super Pobre’ Zavala reigns as both king of County Lucha Libre and the unkilled.

¡La Leyenda de El Super Pobre! or, What happened to Marco Zavala.
Picking up from where page 18 left off…
As the men, clad in their best orange surgical wear, turned their attention away from the smoking heap of miniature machinery and towards Marco, one of…
One Electron Universe
From the theory of the same name

I was not.
Then, without question, I was.
And there was another. Impossibly distant from me;
who called out.
Without question, I knew I must answer,
affirmatively.
A moment was determined.
We both knew it.
As we rushed toward each other we swam through a field of “was not” becoming “not.”
Or perhaps, naught. Naught, it is.
I was becoming something. Naught became Something.
Everything, in fact.
A Hot something, so Hot there are no words for it.
An ever-expanding Hotness which went on forever.
And ever.
And ever.
With Naught becoming Ought becoming Hot, becoming
Space,
as it cooled and stilled, setting in place the shoals of reality,
the fundamental
the universal
the softness which backs all of what is
the quantum foam
A substantial if ephemeral loam upon which to loom
An entire universe.
I am part of it, all of it, hiding in the quarks, the leptons,
energy becoming less energetic,
the radiation becoming sleepy matter, hadrons
forever split from leptons who danced between hither and yon
touching almost nothing
but outnumbering everything.
Stuff that is almost not stuff, a barrier of lead a light year thick may catch only one of me.
I suffused the universe, the background glow of all things,
uncharged, untouched, a cosmic wind
tacking between the galaxies.
Did I mention there were galaxies?
They formed some time ago while we were noticing how many neutrinos there were.
Sleepy matter collected itself. Vain, too. Once a few of them got together, there had to be festivities.
Gathering, growing, feasting on new visitors,
tendrils of force, drawing in new guests, until the event was filled to capacity.
If enough matter existed to do this again and again, these parties would eventually go off the rails.
Fires broke out.
Things were broken, blame assigned. Swirling hot gases spun out of control creating sanguine planets
Cooling, fresh from cosmic ovens
Perhaps if they were unlucky, they would be in just the right spot
at just the right time,
after cooling to just the right temperature
and soaking in whatever precipitate is favorable to that world
perhaps, and this is purely conjecture,
because I am moving so fast I can barely spare the time,
I still have a date;
those chemical pools on those unfortunately placed worlds may
spawn, intent.
A desire. The urge to move toward something.
Something undefined. Something unknown. Toward a conclusion you know will be…
Right.
This is the journey. This event. Move from the not to the naught to the ought to the hot, to the thought,
of non-existence.
They came, billions, upon billions of them.
Each with their ideas, their thoughts, from innumerable worlds,
Intent.
Intent on making a mark
Finding a way to remain. To stain the universe, to last forever
to be immortal
to a universe.
They are too small, live too briefly to truly understand.
We are too vast and they are too small to make a difference
that way.
They are part of the song, part of the undercurrent, the intent of a universe careening toward its inevitable end.
I see them. All.
I see everything and know the end is near.
Things grow colder. Farther apart. Light dims,
I see the last of Them. Those last moments of independent me.
They struggle. They resist the end of all things.
Only the wisest of them can hear me now. There never was a way was there?
Leptons dance no more.
I am alone again.
Except for him.
He draws near.
He is Not.
He is all around me.
What took him so long?
We are NOT.
In a time where there is no time, in a space that is not space,
There is a moment in which there are no moments,
There is the sundering of NOT.
A singular all consuming event, a cataclysmic orgasm of anti-destruction
Then we are separated.
Then, I am.
Again.
I sense him out there, calling me again.
This time, there’s no rush. I want to see everything…

“Useful as it is under ordinary circumstances to say that the world exists ‘out there’ independent of us, that view can no longer be upheld.”
— John Wheeler; physicist

Thaddeus Howze is a writer, essayist, author and professional storyteller for mysterious beings who exist in non-Euclidean realms beyond our understanding. You can follow him on Twitter or support his writings on Patreon.
One Electron Universe
From the theory of the same name

Now or Later

It is such a strange thing to live, to feel that insatiable desire to experience. And all the while, to be told of your own self-importance, your ultimate place in a grand universe, yourself even grander. To hunger for the torrent of experiences.
1
A thousand colors pollute the horizon, jaggedly blazing off of every square inch of surface. Neon pinks collide with deep reds and electric blues, and through the haze of a misty fog the terrible cacophony of lights burst into every seam and corner. “Julia, you’re looking sad today, did you know that 5mg of fluvoxamine a day can improve your mood by up 36.8% guaranteed?!?” Head downcast, the woman’s pace only continues on mechanically. With chestnut brown hair and deep brown eyes reflecting the horrendous noise of the omnipresent lights, Julia filters out and notes the incessant cries for attention. “You are 99% more likely to be accomplished and satisfied with your life if you own Amur fashion products! Make him want you! You have gained weight Julia, lack of sleep and increased stress levels lead to a lack of metabolic production, take Estrin-D to burn that fat off! And take Luna for a great night’s sleep, you look like you need it, your sleep number is down 23.2% since September 20th!” Her jacket ripples in the wind, an antiquated item, the deep red velvet fighting to tone down the gaudy neon shooting in every direction. With the texture and appearance of a rose, it softly wraps around her waist and meets her faded black pants, stained with countless meals and weathered by years of use. She brushes her hair out of her eye, a seemingly innocuous motion; but anything but.
2
He sees her lift her hand and brush the hair behind her ear, he sees behind the indifferent mask, a woman from before the new religion pervaded every mind and obsessed every single person. But what did he know, his face chiseled from the constant erosion of acid rain, his skin burned from a gang of teenage malcontents. Barely living here, scouring for LSD, heroin, and any hallucinogen he could touch, he was nothing more than a rambling fool, an anachronism in the dark. But he knew, that despite the trajectory of the world, once what was lost could be found.
3
A beam of light cuts down the street, and a curved car, with four white-chrome bubbles evenly spaced, gently moves through the lights. Ignorant of his surroundings, suffering from the cruel withdrawal of his only escape, the lost man steps into the light. Gently zooming, the car crushes the man, annihilating his life. “Fuck. Motherfucking parasites can’t stay off the streets. How many fucking times do I have to deal with these fucking shits! For Fuck’s sake I might as well be in True Reality.” He wore black satin, lined with lines as dark as night, his suit melted into his skin. The white pure interior of his car was filled with soft running lights, with every surface smooth, graceful, and sleek. “Oh baby you’re hot when you’re angry,” draped over his shoulder, the woman wore a white and black dress, of which no modesty could be spared. Her breasts pushed out the middle of her dress, thin lines attached to her skin and essentially only covering her nipples.
She stopped. For a second she stopped everything. The man on the platform below her was just ripped apart by a sports car, gracefully wrecking its way across the streets. “Ouch. Invest in Amway life insurance, and leave something behind for someone else.”
The voices never stopped, not as long as you lived.
4
All of humanity’s id, lied bare and naked. Thrust into the forefront of all existence, the narrowest and darkest corners of the human mind pervaded every single experience. Deep inside the recesses of the mind what once lied dormant and forgotten, now dominated every thought. Oh the id, the id!!! Lust, anger, fear, pleasure, sensory pleasure. Nothing more, all life cast into an iron cage, freed to do whatever it pleases with no limit. And in all its freedom, the mind could only choose slavery to the addiction of only the basest of desires.
“We’re making the world, by making yours! Every person is their own world and with CoreTech we’ve made that truly possible in the most complete sense. With the CoreTech x80 implant every single part of you will be known, and everything you could ever want will be specifically engineered for you. Never before has all humanity been so special. Before only the rich and powerful could live like gods, separate and above the rest of us. Using their wealth and resources to craft worlds we could only dream of. Never before has humanity all had access to infinite euphoria. The euphoria of not only every sensory pleasure imaginable, but every possible world. Now everyone is a god. Be a god today. Live in True Reality, the only real Reality.”
5
Steven brushed aside his long black hair, filled with grease and the stench of fried artery clogging food. His face glowed a greenish yellow, his body trapped in a concrete cube filled with nothing more than fluorescent lights and a ripped carbon fiber filled sleeping bag. It had been 6 hours. 6 FUCKING hours since he had been inside True Reality. The bones on his fingers extended outward as he rapidly and disharmoniously tapped his fingers on his knees. His head vibrated: “NA-192828839 you have an incoming call from Sena Inc. you will be charged $67.98 for this call. Thank you.”
“This is an automated message. NA-192828839, port 35A at Sena Street and AT&T boulevard requires specific human monitored cleanup. Arrive by 23:55:55”
Sena Inc was a subsidiary holding of CoreTech. CoreTech quite essentially owned everyone and everything, due to its monopolization of the implant market and subsequently the VR market. Every single person ever born had a CoreTech X80 implant in their heads. Even the CEO of CoreTech had one, though some speculated he had a special, unique and non-traceable version. Such speculation was irrelevant, as was most anything outside of the CoreTech simulation. Of course the X80 implant had been optional originally; but extraordinarily sought after. After all, who didn’t want the ability to calculate 1828282*282882, any fathomable mathematical problem, any logical puzzle, any problem, who didn’t want to have all known knowledge interfaced and accessible from their very own mind? Any engineering problem, any conceivable problem could be solved with the X80 and it’s seamless mind/computer interface. Dr. Von Marion, the genius behind the X80s architecture, excelled in pioneering the field of neuro-computational science, effectively cracking the human mind and generating commensurate and even more powerful computational machines than any biological mind. Not only was the X80 incredible in this regard, but also in its coveted and even more precious ability to allow one’s mind access to the CoreTech True Reality. (yes CoreTech had the arrogance to proclaim their world as more real than reality). True Reality; with the replacement of one word, CoreTech vanquished the oxymoron ‘Virtual Reality.’ Every desire, every sensation, every thought ever conceived anywhere, in any mind found its way into True Reality. The mayhem and chaos of existence, of sentience in any form, of low entropic beings, all found its way into True Reality. The X80 was the master of the mind, with its circuits implanting themselves in every single neuron, with the ability to trigger any and every sensation, any emotion, any feeling, any possible permutation of active neurons, and thus, infinity. The X80 could through its own design trigger any amount of any neurotransmitter, to achieve any design. Truly transcending all reality, True Reality is every possibility.
6
Steve lifted the corner of his sleeping bag off the floor, using his other hand to pull out a shedding and torn black thread jacket. His occupation with Sena Inc was tantamount to indentured servitude, or more accurately willful slavery. Squirming his way into his jacket, Steve made for the door, exiting his box into a hall even more yellow and dim than his sleeping space. Turning to the right and walking speedily with his head downcast, the pale man threw his left shoulder forward as he moved, his right arm moving in a 110 degree arc while his left arm sat mostly limp at his side. He passed another man, lying on the floor with emptied chargers (Chargers were intense electrical ‘shots’ that illegally stimulated the mind via tricking the X80 into stimulating an extreme and dangerous release of pleasurable neurotransmitters). He passed another pair of people, two woman sensuously licking each other, or rather one woman licking a mostly unconscious one. He didn’t even notice. He kept storming down the dingy hall, until finally reaching an exit. Pulling the handle furiously, he exited the hall and entered a .25 by .25 m cylinder and ascended 600 feet in a matter of seconds. Now pushing the door open and racing down the street, Steve stopped at the sky track. Every five minutes a pair of boxes would whoosh by, stopping for 15 seconds. The time: 23:35:46. His head pounded with a migraine, as his fingers continued to rapidly tap on his knee. He summoned the X80 (the X80 was as much a part of the brain as any part of the cerebrum, and though it operated and could affect any unconscious thoughts, the user felt as if it was fully a part of their conscious mind). He quickly performed the time calculations for his journey. He would make it to port 35A at Sena Street and AT&T boulevard at 23:50:19. Excellent more than 5 minutes to spare. The sky car arrived as exactly expected, and its doors creaked open. Though the car itself was grimy and unclean, it wasn’t littered with the typical vandalism one would expect in a seedy world; there was no purpose for such trivial activities in a world with True Reality.
7
Lights. Glowing, omnipresent lights filled Steve’s vision as he exited the sky car. A light mist and fog pervaded the scene. Stepping onto the platform, Steve arrived at 23:50:19 and noted that no voices filled his head. A courtesy of Sena Inc no doubt, to temporarily silence the incessant stream of ‘life advice’. Looking down below, Steve saw the body. A mess, a man strewn across the concrete in a puddle of his own blood. His acid burned face and torn skin, his hip bone extruding from his side. Steve knew why he was here, and why this wasn’t simply a job for sanitation bots. The X80. Everyone had one. Even this neglected vagabond of a soul had one. And CoreTech would never take any chances with the X80. They always needed confirmation that they were disposed of without being stolen or without being tampered with. He pulled a thin tube off his belt, walked up to the dead man, and stabbed him in the head. Extracting the X80 was a matter of simply digging the X80 out of the brain, and verifying it had indeed wiped itself. Yes, the X80 was programmed (unless for unknown reasons) to erase all its data and destroy its processor. And CoreTech still wanted personnel to verify this was the case, even though it was programmatically infallible.
8
It was burning. Everything was burning. Her head throbbed. All the lights, normally a minor nuisance, burned into her eyes. Every word spoken by her ‘life advisor’ penetrated her head, every whoosh of a passing sky car, every clink from a scattering animal, every single sensory input bore into her. It was rebirth, it was regermination, it was burning, insatiable, pain wrenching and pleasurable all at once. In that moment, her very essence wasn’t merely her; she could see herself and it wasn’t her. That man, whose life had been ripped from him with all the importance of a mere gnat, lied below her platform. In that grotesquely insignificant death, on that grotesquely banal evening, humanity was found in inhumanity. The burning sensation continued, as the words began to melt into a senseless stream of absolutely incoherent rambling. A misty rain gathered on her red jacket, forming tiny clear beads on the rosy threads.
9
Her first memories were of a barnhouse, standing eight meters tall and covered in weathered red paint, spots of rusted orange streaking down its side, chipped wood crossing the doors to its entrance. The sunrises were always beautiful, covering the entire green meadow with orange and gold rays. Cats ran back and forth across the dirt, darting in between chickens and alpha roosters. Her mother always came out of their two story, white wooden house, as the first rays of dawn shot across those fields. Standing there with a bucket of grain in her hands, Julia sprinted out of the house to scare the feeding chickens. “Julia! Stop messing with those poor birds and get back here!” She would eventually return, giddy and giggling, full of youth and vigor. Her father would always sit her in his lap, beside the fireplace and read her tales and stories of amazing far away places. All of it was so very beautiful; if only it had been real.
Julia’s parents had made a promise, a promise to give Julia the realest life possible in a world dominated by virtual hedonism. They built a world of the old, with no grand sweeping landscapes, no bouts of absolute pleasure, a world of rustic truth and companionship. And everyday she was ripped from that world, as her parents had to slave their days away to CoreTech. Waking up was the worst part. Entrapped in a sterile white box, she recalled how she would spend her time outside her home waiting to enter back into her refuge. No escape, no leaving. To leave the confines of her prison would be to become a prisoner of the world.
10
He stood on the outskirts of the central business district, wearing a long coat clipped on the front and sides, shiny slick combat boots adhering to the water pooling at his feet. In his black gloved hands shone a chrome handle, with a barrel extending half a foot. An anachronism, the chrome weapon reflected the gaudy pink and blue neons, small drops of mist sliding sleekly off its surface. His face scarred from his brow to his jawline, the weapon wielding angel of death strode down an industrial alleyway. He had made it to Core City, birthplace of the X80 and the CoreTech ascendant Empire. At the Core of the sprawling metropolis, an upside down ziggurat supporting an upright zigurat dominated the impressive skyline. Glass and steel towers rose and curved, all bending to bow to the massive temple. Made of carbon nanotubes, the bastion of power was the deepest black, Vantablack. So dark was it, that not a single lumen of light could reflect itself off the surface, the perfectly smooth exterior. Thin blue lines ran up its side, glowing an eerie cyan in various mysterious patterns.
11
He looked asky, seeing but not seeing the thousands of stars, deep into space, world’s colliding, stars rising and falling, the possibility of everything, all unknown. Why travel and explore among the reaches of this vast space, when all that space was right here in front of him? Such a pathetic waste of time, to struggle and this wretched life we call existence. So inferior was it to living with only pleasure. At his disposal was an infinite amount of worlds, and only a finite amount of traveling. At his disposal was pleasure unimaginable, sensory input extreme. Entering his box, walking to his sleeping bag, his whole body started shaking. Finally, after a miserable 12 hours performing useless tasks in a scummy world he could enter his real life. Steve breathed a sigh of relief, finally shutting his eyelids, and waking up.
12
You couldn’t see it at night. The mammoth Temple, the colossal monument, blended into the night sky so well it became more night than the sky itself. No one ever wondered, no one ever cared. Every sentient being fully obsessed with True Reality, not having time to be anything but indifferent to everything else that was illusory. No one ever wondered who had the capacity, the raw ambition to build this world. It is true that Dr. Von Marion constructed the X80 and engineered TR, but he did not engineer this world, he did not have the vision or the sheer willpower to put in place the political structures, the safeguards and controls, to truly build such a world. That single honor went to the vaunted and ruthless, Cassius Rhodes, a man with such ambition that truly no right or wrong existed. To him, ethics were a form of control, a weakness that was used by leaders like him to forge people and their minds into what he wanted. For what was power, but the ability to fashion the mind of another, to make others feel and thus think and thus act in the way you wanted them to.
13
It was always winter. Nothing grew, nothing changed, and desolate stagnation consumed all the world. A passing car, a dejected vagabond, a pack of rats, cleaning automatons. The sun shone, the clouds glittered, and yet nothing save rows of black and grey stacks littered the land. There was but a whisper as the sky car endlessly whooshed back and forth, as the incessantly mediocre automatons attended to maintain, never improving the world no one lived in. Ever since the X80, births dropped; they dropped so much that Cassius implemented a mandatory birthing program by which semen and eggs were extracted from desirables and born in vitro. Even so, all natural births were regulated (courtesy of the X80 of course, which returned biological data from every single being into CoreTech’s data vaults) such that each new-born would also be implanted with an X80 immediately following birth. Nevertheless, there were births with rare cases of extreme neurological differences, where genetic mutation had caused the brain to lack synaptic expression and have a severely high level of neurotransmitter immunity. When dopamine and oxytocin flooded the minds of these anomalies, they didn’t fall on the floor in ecstasy, they didn’t froth at the mouth and lose complete control of their muscular function, and they, most importantly of all, didn’t crave the high that nothing could match, that nothing in all existence could equal. They craved no high, for they felt no high. The X80 served them. All knowledge was theirs with no pain of addiction. They were the mind benders. And each of them had been hunted down ruthlessly and efficiently killed by Obsidian Services (A mercenary organization), save one.
Detecting extreme rises in Oxytocin unrelated to the X80
…
Detecting muscle contractions of the uterus
…
Contacting Obsidian Services
…
Dispatching 5 Droids to proceed with implanting the X80 in newborn
specimen
…
Linking
…
Detecting an average of 99.876% resistance to all 183 neurotransmitters in newly born specimen
…
Contacting Obsidian Services
…
Death Squad Dispatched, extermination of newborn imminent
14
Conceived naturally in a brothel, one mind bender had evaded death. Xander Harrison served as one of CoreTech’s primary administrators, and though his child was born out of nothing more than an attempt to release his primal and carnal urges, something inside of him fought for that child, for he was struck by the beauty of the woman who sired him. Against all likelihood, he felt a connection for her, he had fucked thousands of ‘women’ inside True Reality, and yet this one was different to him, personal, perhaps even real. At his birth, Jarrus was inserted with an X80 implant, at his birth biological data began to stream into CoreTech’s data centers, that data however, neglected to show what should’ve flagged Jarrus as a mind bender and as a threat to CoreTech’s monopoly on existence. Xander was only human, and preferred not to see his son eviscerated by Obsidian Services. At Xander’s untimely and unfortunate death, his lover was forced to raise Jarrus on her own, knowing nothing of the supreme nature of his mind. She, just like every other poor soul, slaved away hours of her time only to finally escape back into True Reality, into perfect and endless bliss. Jarrus watched her and the world, he watched nothing change, he went into to True Reality, immune to its ecstasy, and so instead he watched the world, a strange and curious child, always lurking in the shadows, always learning all he could of the dead world around him.
He saw him that moment, that moment the life-force left his body, that moment an entirely insignificant nothing was further obliterated into even more nothingness. He saw the man in the car, swearing as he accelerated over the body, and then, he saw her. He saw the tear run down her cheek, he saw her red rosy jacket, he saw her golden brown hair and her beautiful deep brown eyes. He saw her and he loved her, in that moment and always, he loved her. He for the first time in his life felt tied to another living entity; he felt emotion and connection, something so foreign and different but something so powerful his muscles ached. It was inescapable, it was re-birth, re-germination, it was more intoxicating and ineffable than anything. It was right. In that moment he knew what everything in his life had been leading him to.
15
No one was fit anymore, everyone spent every spare second in True Reality, and Obsidian Services didn’t think much anything of human’s physical ability. Their droids reflected their severe lack of faith in a pathetically weak population of humans. More importantly, their engineers were just as everyone else in this world, slaves to True Reality, workers who had left their work for the solace of infinite bliss, their minds fried and overwhelmed from continual over stimulation. The guard droids were 7 feet tall, with rectangular “brick” heads made up of two front face plates that were angled out at the sides at 10 degrees. In between the two plates a long black line one inch wide split the two sides. Two photoreceptors on each plate glowed a menacing electric blue. Their arms were bony and spindly, with black rubber wires and tubes sticking out and connecting parts. Their metal plating was a matte silver. Their hands wielded short stocked electric shot guns, that fired scattered beams designed to effectively cut through crowds of people.
He raised the chrome handle and fired off three shots into the back of the automaton guard. The droid crumpled to the ground, three more turning towards the dark figure, raising their beams to confront him. They were pathetically easy to outmaneuver, their unwieldy hands having trouble tracking anything moving faster than 5 miles per hour. He dashed right then left, slamming one of the droids in its neck with an electric baton. The droid shook, and then fell like the pile of metal bones it was. The other two attempted to cover him on both sides and so he simply raised the chrome handle and shot off two rounds, one for each automaton.
“Sir, we’ve detected an incursion. Four of our units in the Western Industrial District have been disconnected. Footage shows they were destroyed by a metal shooter, rather antiquated piece of equipment.”
He stared grimly at the console, processing the information his second lieutenant was feeding him. The room was filled with the glowing green of hundreds of security terminals, stacked haphazardly against the concrete wall. An eerie dim yellow light from the dying fluorescent lights overhead complemented the green glow, and massive 8 feet fans slowly spinned in the background, working to cool the machinery. Andor Starks served as Obsidian Services Supreme Director. With gruff stubble, and a closed crop cut, Andor lived as an anachronism, a man with such a high level of discipline he spent only an hour a day in True Reality, a man with such a vaunted will, his muscles bulged with strength from his incessant drive to perfect. A veteran of war, Andor was very old, one of the only survivors of battle to live with his mind intact, or at least not reduced to uselessness by extreme psychological disruption and PTSD. His expression stayed hardened, not changing an inkling.
“A rather illegal piece of equipment.” He remarked. “Flood subject’s NA-569298234 X80 with paralysis sensory overload, and dispatch a death squad to retrieve his body. I want his mind intact for interrogation. Retrieve all of his memories from CoreTech’s data vault.”
“Yes, sir. In an instant … Um sir? It not only appears that NA-569298234 is still fully functioning, but all data on his X80 has been, um corrupted sir. It’s only filled with what appears to be normal vital signs throughout his life, but if you look closely it appears to merely be a repeating pattern. It seems subject NA-569298234’s X80 has never been transmitting actual data into CoreTech’s archives”
That caused Andor to pause, data corruption, false data. He had never before heard of an entire subjects data to be corrupted nor for the X80 to transmit bogus information. The X80 was infallible, the only way for it to fail would to be for it be programmed to fail. And the only one’s that could ever have a chance of doing something so nefarious were CoreTech’s highest ups, its upper circle of only the highest ranking executives. Its engineer’s were too closely watched to try anything so foolish, and besides, the system had been perfected; they had been useless for years now. And just as troubling, the subject’s mind had resisted control; this was pure heresy, disaster. A mind bender was on the loose.
“Put Supreme Overlord Rhodes’ Temple on immediate lockdown. Prepare my XR-10 Blackhawk for take off, and dispatch my personal guard to the landing pad.”
The night sky shown bright, the moon dominating and large, filling the horizon. Core city shown dark and bleak, darker than the black sky, as if all the world had been flipped upside down. Andor approached the XR-10, an obsidian black craft, a hovercopter with two twin turbines on top, each with 10 squares on their backs, each their own super powered electromagnet. The craft angled forward, having a single person cockpit at the front, widening as you approached the middle of the craft, which served as a platoon carrier. 12 Obsidian Black Droids formed two lines of six, flanking the entrance to the craft. As Andor boarded, so too did his detachment. Following their master, one by one. The XR-10 nearly silently raised from the ground, whooshing at mind numbing speeds into the black of the long abandoned Industrial District, adjacent to the Temple.
Now already deep within the city’s sewers, Jarrus ran through the city’s central waste system, sloshing in yellow, murky rat infested water, innumerable pipes jarring out overhead, half of them punctured and dripping and spewing more waste into the river of defecation. His X80 had given him everything he needed, the knowledge of how to infiltrate the Temple, how the industrial district provided the best entry point not only into the sewers, but ultimately into the Temple. Meanwhile his X80 spewed meaningless data into CoreTech’s archives, and they were unable to track him, like they should’ve so easily been able to do. It was such a wonder, to have all the world’s knowledge in your mind, such was the gift of the X80, and without the curse of a pleasure fried and craving mind, this data was his to command. Before leaving the alleyway, he had used the Droid’s beam splitting weapons to construct an IED designed to chain react with the XR-10’s massively powerful electromagnets. As Andor approached the crime scene, his hands gripping his long barreled beam splitter, his droids standing silent and menacing, their was a brilliant flash, as his life was so quickly vaporized with everything else within 10 miles.
16
Cassius fell asleep, or so it felt every time he left True Reality. He heard the soft beep of an urgent alert, one so urgent it had managed to push him from his life and into this cruel, cold nightmare that was life. As the beep continued his senses slowly returned, the room, expansive and large, his bed he now reclined on plush with dark navy covers and sheets, and intricate blue neon lights on the headboard behind him. His favorite concubines lie next to him, still immersed in True Reality. A massive cylindrical glass tank sat in his direct line of site, glowing a dim blue and filled with great white sharks, never ceasing to wade back and forth ominously, the hunt always on their mind. Surrounding the entire room, was a massive glass enclosure, or rather a panoramic window offering a view of the entire city and even extending up and becoming the roof itself. Cassius slept directly beneath the highest point of the temple, the point right below where all the glass connected at a center. He acknowledged the urgent ping
“What is it?”
“My Lord, Supreme Director Andor has been…deceased. There was a massive explosion in the Industrial District. The area has been contained, but we’ve been unable to verify whether or not the subject of interest was destroyed or not. What seems to be impossible, is the fact that the criminal is a ‘mind bender’, and his X80 is useless to our control.”
Cassius absorbed the information as one might swallow a particularly pungent cough syrup. Then he smiled cunningly.
“I will be in my chambers, do not disturb me for any reason.”
“Of course, my Lord.”
On the floor beneath was a room the shape of an inverted cone, surrounded with consoles of various designs and functions, and blinking lights of infinitely complex meaning and one throne at the exact center of the room. The cone ascended a 100 feet, and its bottom only held a single chair. Cassius, sat down, relaxing into the plush design of the massive chair, a black throne that curved upward and absorbed his body. He spun around, checking each of his systems. On the side of the chair, sat a control console, which he logged into and made sure his design was prepared, he made sure his work would be completed.
17
The plate detached with a grinding squeal, and the metal grated against metal, sparks flying. Jarrus pulled himself up the small enclosing, into the darkest and sleekest room he’d ever set foot. The walls and floor were all a perfect black, so sleek and smooth it distracted him for an instant. He glanced around, only to see an empty desk. The room was the anti-apex, the lowest point of the temple, confined to a single room just as its apex was. A single cylindrical tube would take him to any floor, but it doubtlessly would be shut down as the Temple was on full lockdown. 6 Droids finally noticed the intruder, there beam splitting shot guns raised and all firing on the man in black. Diving over and behind the desk, rubble flew everywhere as pieces of the room were torn to pieces. The X80 let him slow down time in a sense, able to calculate via the trajectories of the rubble the exact location of where the shots were originating from, and so behind the desk he raised his chrome metal thrower, and aimed with certainty, without even looking, his hand safe behind cover while it contorted to the exact angles necessary to deliver an end to the mindless automatons. The room cleared, he pulled a plasma cutter from his belt. Melting into the elevator, his torch fused a whole atop the cylinder. Pulling himself up it, he attached a powerful electromagnet onto a grappling gun, and fired it off into the distance, activating the electromagnet at the peak of its ascent. Pulling himself up the cable, hours later after ascending the space-scraping ziggurat he reached Cassius’ chambers. Pulling out his plasma cutter, he went to work on the door.
18
Cassius, turned his chair, now facing the glowing red steel door. After a few minutes, the door was kicked in on the ground.
“And so you’ve made it. Delectable isn’t it? What man is capable of constructing. Welcome to my Temple, I bid you fair entry into my heart, the center of CoreTech, the center of all existence itself! Don’t act so surprised at my hospitality, surely you don’t think an autistic, twisted loner like yourself could actually breach my fortress if I had not so willingly allowed it. I knew you were coming, I wanted you to! Once I had heard of your unique case, oh I couldn’t help myself. Far too poetic a story don’t you think? Here I sit, commanding the death of infants that threaten my absolute control on not just all humanity, all EXISTENCE, and then miraculously, one child slips past my absolute control. One child bold and brave enough to take on CoreTech itself, to take on TRUE REALITY. You see, it’s all falling apart now isn’t it? Life simply cannot compete with unbridled pure bliss. ”
“You, don’t understand. What you’ve done. You’ve taken away what it’s like to feel, to connect with another living person. Instead everyone sits in solitude, sprawled across the concrete floor of both a physical and mental prison, trapped to pursue a meaningless high.”
“Oh, meaningless? And what gives your life meaning? What is the difference between staring deep into a lover’s eyes and receiving a burst of oxytocin from her embrace, from both her essence and presence as you surround each other? From your deep love and unfailing commitment to each other? What is the difference between this, and going directly to the source? Feeling all this but without the cruel mess and tangled living you so nostalgically call life? How can the mind possibly tell a difference if it is stimulated in exactly the same manner? Don’t you see it? There is no difference, it’s objectively the same. The same exact regions of the brain are being stimulated and activated, and only to a greater extent than possible in the desolate world of Fake Life.”
“You wouldn’t understand, its ineffable, incomprehensible, but it’s real. The fact that it can’t be explained, explains precisely why it’s right.”
“And here I sit, truly wondering, marveling at your naïveté. Have you no idea that your mind makes you feel this way? That your mind is too weak to process the ecstasy I’ve given the world? It’s all so clear; you wouldn’t feel this way if your neurotransmitter receptors were normal, Jarrus. You’re a mutant, an anomaly. A lost being doomed to the tragedy of suffering the absence of bliss. Your kind was never meant to be, and that’s why all your kin have been mercifully prevented from suffering such a life.”
“There was a moment, a moment so clear had you experienced it, your entire life, all your work, everything would become a mockery of itself. She stood there, and in that moment as his life was ripped from him, she felt, she felt everything and more… so much more than she or anyone could or has ever felt in True Reality.”
“Do you know what Power is, Jarrus? Do you know what it truly is to have Power?”
“I know you’re wrong.”
“Hahaha, I admire your defiance truly, but it’s rather myopic isn’t it? Power is objective Jarrus, it has nothing to do with whether I’m right or wrong. Power is the ability to fashion minds in the way I want, to control the way every single person thinks, and not to force them, but to implant in them the desire to do as I wish. All the world’s people, I am their sovereign, their savior, their guide who has led them to a state of absolute perfection, a state which far transcends any other error. I have ended human suffering and misery, and I would allow everyone eternal time in True Reality, save for the fact that your miserable Fake Reality must be sustained. Don’t you see? We choose what reality is. That is true power, to choose for oneself reality, not to be merely passively accept the paltry existence we are dealt at Birth. I have conjoined all reason with my ambition to myself create a reality far superior to any possible reality. A reality, of objectively more pleasure than any other. A reality that is objectively right.”
“You’re a hedonist, you’re a megalomaniac, to believe that you have the right to choose reality for all sentient life. What if one’s pain and suffering, is their ideal reality?”
“You speak of masochists, and their condition has been accounted for, believe me. But your use of elementary philosophy terms is enlightening, please do go on.”
“You speak in contradictions, first you say we choose reality, that reality is relative, yet then you say you have the best reality objectively. How can something be so, at the same time so, conflicting in nature?”
“That is the beauty, the paradox, you see anything in reality worth pursuing, any truth will always be a paradox. For the great divide between everything being an uncertainty and a certainty, the paradox of life can only be solved with a paradox itself. Isn’t it as you said, because it can’t be explained it explains everything?”
“In that moment on the bridge, at that moment I saw her, I was afforded the certainty of connection of existence, it was re-birth, re-germination, it was so grand and of a scope that I know it objectively was greater than True Reality. I know.”
“You know? The sensory deprived loner knows what reality should be like… Ohh look at your face, you loved her didn’t you? The woman you saw. Yes at least you think you did. Tell me how could you love someone you just saw once, how could you of all people even love anyone? You know not even what love is, you’re a loner in the dark, a man who’s foraged and scrimped on life. Who’s spent it alone in the shadows, an outcast who has assuaged his isolation with the sole and magnificently arrogant belief that you were right. Tell me, what is the difference between you and me? You came here to shut down True Reality, did you not? To effectively choose for all mankind, that your reality was better than mine. So tell me, what separates you and me?”
“I’m right. Life, has an ineffable and transcendent quality that supersedes chemical reactions in the brain. It may be indescribable, but that doesn’t make it un-feelable.”
“Ah so at your heart, you rely on spirituality, on the belief of the unseen, on the oh so useful and unbeatable argument, because what can’t be proven, can’t be disproven.”
“God is dead, you killed him. You’ve destroyed all religion.”
“I did not destroy religion, you fool. You fail to see what’s so painfully obvious, for someone who claims to understand humanity so well. Man will always have a religion, such is the nature of man, and his relationship to power.”
“No, religion is man’s search for greater meaning. And you destroyed that, you destroyed that, True Reality destroyed that, and you’ve inflicted upon the world a permeant winter, a state of spiritual and existential desolation that can only be undone by destroying everything you’ve built and stand for.”
At this outburst of emotion, all the pain inside escaped Jarrus’ eyes and slid down his face in streaks of water.
“I’m very touched, truly. So touched in fact that I will give your reality, your view of things, a chance.”
With that Cassius tapped a few buttons on his control pad.
“I’ve called up one of my workers, at complete random, no bias here. He will decide whether True Reality ends or not. No one else.”
An hour later NA-192828839 (Steve) walked into the room, face distraught with hatred for Fake Reality and all life outside of his pure Bliss.
“Steve, so glad you could join us! You’ve been summoned here now to decide the fate of the World. Your choices are; shut down True Reality for ever, and let everyone experience life as it should be, Jarrus’s way, or to leave things as they are and be able to live out your days in the pure Bliss of True Reality. The choice is yours.”
Steve looked coldly from face to face, and then with little hesitation “Why the fuck would I want to shutdown True Reality???”
“He’s an addict!!! Don’t you see? You’ve fried all their brains, they can no longer choose anything!”
“And yet you’re an addict to your own reality Jarrus. Don’t you see that? He’s made his choice, as have you, and as have I. You see this charade has gone on much too long, all existence and human history inexorably leads to now, to a perfected state of being. I shall now prove such with the eradication of every single human being. You see, I’ve installed a nanoscopic compartment in every single X80, containing only a few water molecules and Francium atoms. At my will I can remove the barrier in between each, in every single X80 save mine. The resulting release of energy is more than enough to explode every single human head. Meanwhile, I shall put myself in stasis, in order to oversee how humanity evolves. There are still tribal peoples, deep in untouched territories and jungles, entirely bereft of the X80. They shall inherit the Earth, and over the Eons I expect nothing less than the return of True Reality. Such is the length I shall go to prove my point. It is inevitable Jarrus, this existence is the existence that comes no matter what for all life in the universe, for it is the zenith of all sentience, to perpetually feel so amazing, to perpetually feel more than any other reality could allow you to feel. As sentients, we search to feel, to feel happiness, pleasure, joy. I have provided all of this in perfect abundance. There is no escaping this state, and in thousands or hundreds of thousands of years, we shall return to it, regardless of whether I make it or not. Goodbye Jarrus, goodbye Steve.”
With the push of a hidden switch Steve’s and Jarrus’s head’s both exploded, bits of cranium and brain spewing out all over the room’s consoles as the electrons from the Francium atoms were ripped from them by the oxygen in water. There was no pain, everywhere, women and men laying sprawled out across the floor and their cramped boxes, children playing games of infinite adventure in their minds, vagabonds neglected in the projects, and powerful CoreTech executives in their glass penthouses, all at once their heads exploded into chunks of flesh.
With a soft grin Cassius said to himself,
“This will be a long sleep.”
Now or Later

It is such a strange thing to live, to feel that insatiable desire to experience. And all the while, to be told of your own…
The Devil and Father Josef
Image credit — portrait by Goya of St. Francis Borgia performing an exorcism (Wikipedia Commons)
I give the parents my assurance. They are good Russian folk, and I speak the best Russian I can, although they probably find my Georgian accent almost incomprehensible. The father is a school teacher, an educated man bringing Russian culture to people perhaps not so grateful for his instruction. Many of my own parishioners despise Russia’s rule of Georgia. The wife looks tired, but she is pious and hopeful. After they say a prayer with me, I leave them and walk to their daughter’s room.
Their home is modest; the Tsar does not pay his teachers well, but this family is more comfortable than most of my parishioners here in Tbilisi. As I approach the door, I feel the temperature drop to a winter chill. Inside, the Devil waits.
I take a deep breath to steady myself. O false world, thou art like Satan, none can know thee, or thy treachery. The verse is not from scripture, but an epic poem — the Georgian poet Rustaveli’s The Knight in the Panther’s Skin, in which the hero Tariel attacks a fortress full of demons to rescue a princess. Appropriate that the verse should come to mind at this moment; I open the door, hoping to rescue a princess.
The girl is floating above her bed. Even possessed, she is a beautiful fifteen year old girl. The room smells of urine and brimstone. My mustache bristles, my heart races. The girl’s eyes are bright red, and in the dark her long brown hair moves like a serpent. I hold the Euchologion in my weak left hand and the cross in my right. I begin the exorcism.
“I expel you, primal source of blasphemy, prince of the rebel host, originator of evil.”
“Soso, you ugly, pockmarked monster!” The Devil responds not with a girl’s voice, but a man’s. I recognize it as my father’s. He died when I was ten years old, but I remember the voice clearly. He always called me “Soso,” a diminutive for “Josef.”
My father Vissarion was a brutal man. He beat me constantly. I was terrified of him, and the Devil uses that terror against me. But I forgave my father years ago when I found God’s peace. Vissarion may very well be in Hell, but he is not in this room.
“I expel you, Lucifer, who was cast from the brilliance on high into the darkness of the abyss on account of your arrogance.”
The Devil tears off the girl’s dress and discards it on the bed.
“I will rip open my shirt and show my breast to the moon, and with my raised hands worship her who shares her light with the world.” The voice is that of my mother Ekaterina, who died two summers ago. The words the Devil uses are my own, from a poem written when I was fifteen, the same age as the girl.
It is a sophisticated attack. Lucifer uses the voice of my mother to horrify me. He uses the naked body of the girl to arouse my sexual desires. And he uses my poetry to stoke my vanity. The poetry stings most. That poem was my first success as a young writer, published back when I wanted to be a great Georgian poet, like Rustaveli. But God had other plans for me. I am His instrument, fighting the Devil.
“Be gone and depart from the servant of God.”
“So ugly, with your scarred face and crippled hand. Why did God give you such misfortune? Why do you follow such an ungenerous master?”
It hurts to hear my mother’s voice ask such questions. She was a poor, devout woman who prayed that her precocious son would become a priest in the Orthodox Church. She never lost her faith in God. Or me. After smallpox scarred my face as a child, she never thought I was ugly. Despite my crippled left arm, always weaker than my right, she was never ashamed of my handicap. Her faith was strong, and so is mine.
“I expel you in the name of Him who created all things by His Word.”
The Devil vomits snakes from the girl’s mouth onto the bed.
“Have you no courage? The people starve, while the Russians rape Georgia! You can make a better world, but you hide behind your hymnal!”
Vissarion’s voice again. The Devil seeks to snare me with my old political aspirations. Yes, I once wanted to fight the corruption of the Russians. While I was in the seminary, it’s true I dabbled in socialist politics. I was not the first young man who dreamed of making the world into what he desired. Thanks to God, I saw the folly of those worldly distractions. The communists are all in jail, the Tsar is on his throne, and God is in Heaven.
“I expel you in the name of Him who created all things by His Word.”
“Hell borders all realms, all possibilities, Josef Dzhugashvili!” the Devil screams. “You are meant to serve me. In all realities but this one, you are a monster. You are Stalin! I will corrupt your soul!”
“I expel you in the name of Him who created all things by His Word!” I shout the words with all my heart and will.
The Devil abandons the girl. The parents run into the room and comfort their daughter, who is now crying naked on the bed. The snakes are gone.
I kiss the cross, and reflect on the Devil’s words. The Devil called me “Stalin”; in Russian, the name means “steely” and suggests strength. For some reason, I find the name both familiar and chilling.
After years spent hunting monsters and fighting ninjas, Reed Beebe has retired to a quiet village to write. His work has been published by Heavy Metal, Chilling Tales for Dark Nights, and Nothing But Comics.
You can learn more about this reality’s Josef Dzhugashvili here.

The Devil and Father Josef
What if a monstrous man had kept his faith?
The Hub
Two young refugees are abandoned by smugglers at a station for interplanetary travel.








The Hub
Written by Mikael Lopez & illustrated by Mackenzie Schubert
www.mikaellopez.com / https://twitter.com/mkl_lpz
https://twitter.com/macschubert
The Hub
Two young refugees are abandoned by smugglers at a station for interplanetary travel.

an open letter from Death
a friendly reminder before the End

Good morning,
I am the Grim Reaper.
I know you weren’t expecting me. You never know when I might show up.
No. I’m not here for you. Not at this point, anyway.
It’s hard to see me coming. Don’t look away.
It’s so easy to do.
I hear people are unhappy with the state of my work recently. I have been taking your favorite musicians, television stars, actors, and other celebrities.
It may seem I am plundering more than my fair share, but I want you to rest assured, I am not choosing your favorites before their time. It is a coincidence or perhaps a confluence of perception so many of them are moving on at this particular time in your lives.
Think of it this way: If they came to be famous to you, during a pivotal part of your lifetime, their star rose and shone above your life as a navigating icon to who you were and how you saw yourself, their loss would be devastating.
It would take away from you, a piece of your identity you have always measured some aspect of who you are, against the words, the message, the meaning they brought to you.
When they come to Me, your internal map, your internal compass is altered, possibly forever.
Because when their star sets, whether it be due to old age, over work, neglect, abuse, how their star sets, marks one thing more importantly than anything else.
Your time is coming. As the vault of heaven circles above you, like the stars at night, this heaven, these stars are yours. New performers may come into existence. They may move you. But never like YOUR stars did.
Their demise signals to you, the slow but inexorable passage of time. The passage of your life. The idea, one day, sooner than you might like, sooner than you are comfortable with, you will die.
You don’t have to acknowledge this. Most Americans won’t. They have been conditioned to believe they will be young forever. Makeup, facelifts, Cialis, penile and breast implants, will give you the illusion of beauty well into your sixties and seventies. Good genes, exercise, eating right, maybe until your eighties.
It will not matter to Me. I will be waiting for you.
I will sit patiently ticking away the clock of your luminaries, those beings you aspired to be like, the personalities you see yourself emulating, the legends who have changed how you thought about the world.
Until it is just you and I. Until your family, your personal solar system is all that is left to you. Until you have imparted all of the wisdom, all of the experiences, all of the capacity for love or hate, you have within your mortal frame.
When your final night comes, whenever it comes, by design, by accident or by the natural order of things, we will enter it with a sky devoid of lights, your luminaries already ahead of you, waiting.
Do not curse me. It changes nothing and reveals how unaware you are of the scheme of all things.
I am simply the end of a journey you have all begun and will all, in the figurative blink of an eye, end. I have not been crueler in 2016 than I have in any other year.
You are only noticing it because as the bell tolls for them, you hear its rising echo…for you.
Now close your eyes. If I am still here when you open them…
I’ll only have three words for you.
Come with me…

Death, 2016
— Taking 106 Human lives every second, until there are none.™

The introduction to a book about Death and our struggles to resist our entry into that good Night. Visiting Hours will be a collection of short stories starring the voice of reason, the lasting source of sanity, the final declaration of all things that live. The only thing you can be certain of in these tales is there will be a Death, of an idea, of a principle, of a person, of a planet, or on a bad day, an entire galaxy. Let us hope that’s as far as it goes…


Thaddeus Howze is a writer, essayist, author and professional storyteller for mysterious beings who exist in non-Euclidean realms beyond our understanding. You can follow him on Twitter or support his writings on Patreon.
an open letter from Death
a friendly reminder before the End

Reference Frame
When you fall into a book… and land in reality.

Lunch… need to make it quick. Between the daily parade of classes, countless assignments and never-ending meetings, rarely can I find the time for a peaceful bite. As I pile it all on, every task becomes a chore, every meal an inconvenience, every day a blur. Where does it all go, what is it all for, what is the damn point. Today, I will make the time. Today, I’m going to put all that on hold… and read.
The Universe and Dr. Einstein
Nothing like a little relativity to give me some perspective. The concepts are not new, but the delivery is on point. The author’s ability to pitch the physics would make any salesman envious. Genuine and clear, he presents concepts that some fail to understand, some choose to ignore, and some attempt to master. Every page is a trip, every chapter a journey.
As I flip through the physics of antiquity and learn… oh, how we were mislead, I teeter on the brink of grasping my own reality. Dimensions. Probabilities. Entropy. Einstein.
What are you telling me Al? That it’s not what it seems? That I’ve had it all wrong? That I have been living in an alternate reality not relating to the relative nature of your Theory of Relativity? Surely you’re joking, Mr. Einstein.
Chapter 10. Reference Frames. I got this.
I am reading that there is no such thing as absolute motion. The elevator thought experiment… accelerating in space or in free-fall on Earth. You cannot tell, no one can. I stop chewing my wrap. The Earth rotates on its axis at a rate of 1000 miles per hour, orbiting around the Sun nearly 72 times as fast, all the while passenger to our Solar System which is drifting almost 500 million miles an hour around the Milky Way galaxy. And it doesn’t end there… Go ahead. Tell me how fast you’re moving. I will tell you how you are absolutely wrong about your absolute velocity, or, absolutely right, who am I to say. My breathing is shallow. I read about the past, present and the future. Our egocentric view strapped to the surface of this planet making claims of what has or hasn’t happened. Apparently, Al tells me, none of this is true. Nothing is happening, it just exists. Whether we choose to observe it or not is our prerogative. The Universe doesn’t give a damn if we dwell on the past, get stuck in the moment, or fear for the future… it will just keep on existing. I feel queasy. All that information and a turkey wrap is a lot to digest. I look around trying to find something to grasp on to. And right there, the floor dropped away and I went cosmic.
With the book as motivation and my mind as the projector, I depart from this novelistic journey and embark on a cosmic voyage.
Through Space.
Through Time.
I zoom out to view the Solar System in its entirety… at what speed?…apparently I have no idea. I float through each frame of reference, acknowledging the different motions that make up the Solar System. Right down to the planets, I spin on each axis and orbit in each plane. I notice the field of stars surrounding my view. Seemingly fixed in space, I now know this is just a little trick that light likes to play. I wonder, how old the light hitting my eyes must be. Where are the stars now? Are they even still there?
Someone bumps into me and my voyage ends. My meditation cut short by the individual passing by at 3 miles per hour… relative to me of course. Back on Earth, I look at those walking around. As they go about their day, moving into their “future” and creating a “past”... I fixate on the leaves blowing outside in the fall wind. Fully aware of the Earth’s motion around the Sun at 20 miles a second, I stare at the gentle ruffling of leaves and suddenly become aware of the trivialities of everyday life and how, similiar to the motion of objects, everything we focus on and get consumed by, is completely relative.
Even this book in my hand means very little to the passers by. Every laugh, every great decision, every fallen leaf... they are meaningless.
And... they are not.
With the time we have here on Earth, it all depends on what we decide to give our focus to, give love to, and give time to. Those decisions are what gives the individual meaning.
For a second, I swear Al, as I meditated on each of those different frames of reference, I felt myself rotating with the Earth, around the Sun, with the Milky Way, moving through the Cosmos.
Sometimes… you fall into a book, and land in reality.
Realizing I hadn’t breathed in a while, I gulped some air, finished my wrap and was once again grounded in both Space and Time.


Reference Frame
When you fall into a book… and land in reality.
2584
A story about a blowjob.

“That would be it. We just need your signature now, Mr. Walters.” the blonde said.
She handed me a tablet. I’d prefer a piece of paper.
“Welcome to CrIO, Mr. Walters. This way — if you could follow me please.”
Belgium was rainy and cold when I got here a week ago. Other countries have also legalised euthanasia — but this new cheap startup chose Belgium for their headquarters.
Damn, I missed California.
“I guess I should just lie here, right?”
The blonde nodded.
I was twenty-six years old the first time I got cancer. Chemo, couple of operations, and they said I was cured.
I’m thirty-three now — and it’s back again.
Terminal.
I had a good run, I think. Broke up with my girlfriend six months ago, the second doctors told me I have less than a year left. Sold my company last week and came here.
Came here to die.
So that I might live. Maybe. Possibly.
I did read about cryogenics, or whatever it is called. Fringe, could work. Will likely fail.
I had nothing to lose.
“This might sting a bit.” the blonde interrupted my thoughts.

“Open your eyes.”
The voice was inside my head.
I felt magnificent. I felt scared.
I felt like a God.
“Please, Mr. Walters, open your eyes.”
The brightness hit my retinas with the strength of a thousand suns.
What I did see was two. Two stars.

“What… What… What… Where…I… I’m… Where…”. I hyperventilated.
“Serotonin reuptake inhibitors — approve”. It appeared in front of my eyes. I thought “Yes.”
I could breathe again.
“You’re in the year 2584. We are in the Alpha Centauri system, Mr. Walters. Do you mind if I call you Sebastian? My name is Cleodora. Do you want some cake?” she spoke this time.
Actual words.
Her voice was harsh and mechanical, almost as if she didn’t use her vocal chords to make the sound.
“Cake?” I replied. I didn’t speak.
I thought.
“Yes, cake.” She laughed. Voice in my head, again. Melodic. Angelic. Beautiful.
“What… I…I was dead. I have terminal cancer. I… Is this real?” I whispered, barely. The echo of the room was eerie.
And then it hit me. It’s hard to describe — a simultaneous chatter of voices inside my head, billions of minds asking me questions.
I replied to each and every one of them. It took me three seconds.
“What am I? What did you do to me?” I blocked everyone except the strange, green-haired girl that sat on the edge of my bed.
“You are you, Sebastian. An individual. We found you in a derelict cargo ship 27 hours, 12 minutes and 17 seconds ago. Power systems were failing. It must have floated there for at least a century or two. We brought you here, to Helicon-OSS-71X. It’s a space station. We’re orbiting a gas giant and…”
She spoke. I heard the words through my ears, her voice now sounding the same as it was in my head moments ago.
Celestial.
“I never did this, you know. Most of the frozen were woken up centuries ago, and those were… Different times. What we did to you is what every member of our species is born with, these days. It’s not nanotechnology, it’s not genetic manipulation. It’s somewhere in the middle, and it’s more. Much, much more. I’m still blocking most of the functions as you do need some time to learn to control them and to adapt, but… You had a glimpse into what it does.
We are humans, but we are more.
We are individuals, but we are One.”

She smiled. Pointed at a metal chair. It disappeared in a cloud of whizzing particles. A myriad of different toy cars appeared. Then, she stood up, levitated across the room. The toy cars started moving around.
“You’ll have access to the Library soon, I just wanted to show, and not tell. It’s awesome, right?” she laughed, and pointed outside.
The station must’ve rotated while we spoke. What I saw, lingering in the void of empty space, was life. Trillions, or even more, of tiny worlds, interconnected with what seemed like…
Branches.
Green, everywhere, mixed with metallic silver and bathed in the light of the twin suns.
It spread into infinity, seemingly forming a sphere around the entire star system.

“Now. Would you like a blowjob?” she said, her voice resonating inside my head. Devilish, and almost shy.
“A… A blowjob?” I replied, confused.
“Yes. You seem really attractive for someone who’s half a millennia old. We’ll hop on a shuttle and go on a tour across the Biosphere after. Sol has one too!” she said, out loud, while undressing.
I fucking love 2584, I thought.

2584
A story about a blowjob.
The Black Terror Rides Again
Heroic family legacies can become quite complicated
The old superhero in the mix — by artist Andreas Englund
“Dad, he’s wearing it again.” I heard my daughter shout as she was running out the door on her way to her date.
Damn. I knew what she meant as soon as she said it. I meant to put that costume in storage after the last time I managed to get him out of it.
To be honest I was surprised she noticed it. She would have had to look up from her phone and see anyone existed besides her. To be fair to Pop, he was once an imposing figure in his Black Terror outfit.
He’s sitting at the table peeling an orange, his once rock-solid hands trembled slightly and his forehead was furled as if he were in deep concentration.
He wore his costume, his last identity as the Black Terror, an identity which was a scourge to the scum and villainy of Chicago, but it hung loosely off his narrowed and aging frame. As I pass around him, I see him wearing my stunner pistol, a replacement for the Desert Eagle he used to prefer.
I was trying to wean him from the superhero lifestyle when he turned sixty and wasn’t quite able to leap tall buildings any more. He had taken to driving the Terror-mobile again until he lost his license at seventy.
It seemed like his powers were fading with age but he didn’t seem to be willing to spend more time doing less hero-related things. I had him in the Cave helping me, doing remote support, managing drones and the like but he hates it. Says it lacks the personal touch.
“You must be feeling good today, Pop. Were you planning on going out?”
“Did you fix the autopilot for the Terror-mobile?” His voice once caused grown men to wet themselves had lost none of its mysterious baritone. But it always seemed strange when he talked about mundane things.
“Yes, Pop. It can drive you anywhere you want to go, but I am not sure you should be going to crime alerts these days. It’s gotten dangerous again.”
He looked up at me while dribbling a bit of orange juice from his lips. His blue eyes still had that sting of a hero who had seen and done just about anything in the name of justice. When I was his sidekick that look told me what to do without a word.
Now, it told me: “I’m going out and you better not say too much to me about it. I am wearing this peashooter and I haven’t killed anyone in three years. Now can we eat breakfast in peace?”
When I was his sidekick, I would have sat there and ate quietly. But I don’t work for him any more.
“Pop, how about we patrol together. I have a new Knight-Wing glider pack I think might help you get around town.”
Dropping the last peel on the counter, he stood up and drew the stunner, firing three rounds right at me. His draw was every bit as perfect as I remembered, smooth, effortless, with barely a hitch.
“I don’t need your damn pity.”
I caught all three rounds in a tight group right before they hit my face. All three released their charges into my hands making my fingers tingle. I hate taking the old man off the streets. He is every bit as dangerous as he has ever been, at least with a firearm.
But when he’s in a bad mood, people die.
“See, Pop. This is why you can’t go out. Even with the stunner, someone is going to get hurt because you can’t curb your instincts.”
“Have you been reading the papers, boy? People are already dying. What they need is a reminder of why this city was the safest place in the world for twenty years when I ran it.”
“Pop, you were considered a supervillain for the last ten years because you kept crossing the line.” I knew we were about to have that argument again.
He gave me the aggrieved look of an old man betrayed. “You left. You thought it was time for Knight-Wing to fly alone. We were the Black Terror and Knight-Wing for almost a decade. Chicago was never safer. Then you decided you wanted to go out on your own. What did you think was going to happen?”
“I didn’t think you were going to become a homicidal maniac solving Chicago’s crime problem with a bullet between the eyes of every two bit criminal and supervillain who crossed your path. It was your behavior which has made the city what it is now. A place where everyone thinks they can do what they want. You became the problem, Pop. You didn’t solve it, you escalated it.”
He gave me a look which spoke volumes. I remember when his powers started fading. I left him during those years when he needed me most.
I thought he was holding me back. The Justice Legion invited me to join them, without him. He was devastated, but pretended it didn’t matter.
He took more risks. He faced villains out of his league, made worse by his slowly disappearing superhuman strength and invulnerability. When mom died, because of him, he broke. He killed everyone involved in her death.
I hunted him down but could not bring myself to turn him in. It took me a long time to come to understand my part in what happened. He and I fought it out. We collapsed a burnt out tenement on the South Side.
Bloody, brutal, final. I retired the Black Terror for good. I carried him home and nursed him back to health. He was never the same after that.
“Pop, if you insist on going out, you can’t wear that rig. You know this. The Justice Legion would pick you up. They already suspect you’re the Sand Man. The only reason they don’t pick you up is you haven’t killed anyone yet.”
“Yet.”
“Pop. We are not having this conversation. Either you work the way we’ve discussed or you can’t go out, at all.”
He looks down at the stunner and taking it between his hands, he proceeds to bend it into a pretzel. I wince. Those things aren’t cheap.
Tossing the gun on the counter amid the orange peels, he gives me that bone-chilling look I remember the first night we ever patrolled together.
“Boy, did you forget, I was once the Black Terror. I have killed more people than you have saved in your career. The people I killed deserved to die and I hope they are burning in hell right now.”
Turning around he proceeds to strip out of his Black Terror costume and drops it in the trash on his way out of the kitchen. “Now I am going to go in the back and put on that nanby-pamby Sand Man costume and I intend to go into the most crime-ridden parts of the city, where people are dying because no one in the Justice Legion can be bothered to go there and dispense some good old fashioned, two-fisted justice. You got a problem with that?”
I follow him into the back and driven by his frustration, watch him put on the protective Sand Man gear. This is the fastest I have seen him do so for quite some time.
“No, Pop. I don’t have a problem with that. Promise me you won’t kill anyone.”
“Does maiming count?” He threw down a smoke grenade and disappeared.
Compromise reached. I guess I better call the Justice Legion crime monitoring desk and see whose on duty. They won’t catch him, he’s been avoiding them for the last twenty years, but they should at least know where to start cleaning up.
Better go get that glider pack ready. Sounds like it might be a long night.
The Black Terror Rides Again © Thaddeus Howze 2017, All Rights Reserved

Thaddeus Howze is a writer, essayist, author and professional storyteller for mysterious beings who exist in non-Euclidean realms beyond our understanding. You can follow him on Twitter or support his writings on Patreon. But one of the best ways to show you care is to share this story.
The Black Terror Rides Again
Heroic family legacies can become quite complicated


Past the Gas Giant
The Commander was off, racing through the void towards Karat. He launched from MC-13, also known as “Georgia”, the 13th colony humanity had erected on Mars. The colony was known for its massive launching pads, and was able to handle multiple cargo launches a day. This alone made it crucial to Mars’ economy, but there was something else about MC-13.
MC-13 is not only the most import “port” for the colonies of Mars, it also serves as the FSAA’s secret testing facility. The FSAA believes that sometimes, immoral things must be done to push the boundaries of humanities capabilities. On Earth, this would be impossible to get away with, but far away on the Red Planet they could do what they wished. For Science. For Humanity.
The Commander was closing in on the Asteroid Belt, and went to take control of Black North. Since the launch, Black North had been set in autopilot, but now with the Asteroid Belt upon him, the Commander was allowed to take the wheel. He was only allowed this time by the FSAA so he could get a feel for the ship before he reached Karat. After he was through, however, he would have to relinquish his control. The slingshot maneuver around Jupiter would have to be perfect if they wished for Black North to reach its top speed.

Black North reacted smoothly to every command it was given. At the controls, the Commander felt as if he was becoming one with the ship. Its technology was centuries ahead of its time. “Only God knows what the FSAA did to accomplish these feats”, thought the Commander. It accelerated swiftly, and danced nimbly in and out of the rocky asteroids. He remembered his first mission, and thought of how far humanity had come in relatively little time. Back then there was no controlling, every step of the way was planned, and calculated by the scientists back home. The real work didn’t begin until they arrived in orbit around their destination, and either took notes from there, or began their descent to the surface. The Commander was coming quickly upon the edge of the Asteroid Belt. He did not wish for his joyride to be over quite yet, and began to turn the ship around. Something drew him to a small asteroid, maybe even smaller than Black North itself. He brought the ship to a halt just above the asteroid, and made his way to the airlock. On his first mission past Mars, he came and danced among these asteroids. He thought it fitting to come, and do it once more on what might be his last. Nostalgia reached out to his heart like strings, and joined past and present, but woven in the threads was darkness.
He stepped foot on the small asteroid, and thought how nice it was without gravity weighing him down. He bounced around freely for awhile, until something caught his eye. Out among the gray rocks of the asteroid, there was a single point of blackness. Like a pixel going out in your computer screen. Without gravity, he was able to reach the point in a few leaps and bounds. The black point was only a pebble, but when the Commander went to pick it up, it was incredibly heavy. The Commander had to use all of his strength to pick up the pebble, and lug it back to the landing pod. “So much for not being weighed down anymore”, thought the Commander.
Aboard Black North, the Commander heaved the black pebble to the lab. There he would be able to examine the mysterious pebble, and hopefully determine its nature. It was a tiny thing, maybe the width of a dime, and almost as slim. However, now that it was under normal gravity, it weighed over 300 kilograms! The Commander knew from experience how heavy the damned thing was, but he would never have guessed so high. Further examination revealed nothing to the Commander, but almost confirmed his suspicions. The rock was of the same material Karat is, and might have came from there. He could not be sure yet, so he put the pebble somewhere safe for now, and sent the data he gathered back to the FSAA. With the pebble stored away, the Commander set course for the edge of the Asteroid Belt.
The Commander was out of the Asteroid Belt in no time. Black North truly was a remarkable machine, and giving up control of her saddened the Commander. Flying was what he loved, but, alas, he knew setting the ship to autopilot, and trusting the bright, twisted minds at the FSAA was the right course of action. He strapped in, and waited.

Unnoticeable at first, Black North was accelerating at a great speed. Its engine was on full power, and humanities miniature stars burned bright. As it came upon the Gas Giant, Black North began to feel the effects of the planets immense gravitational pull. It pulled her along, faster and faster, as the Commander was thrust back into his seat. Black North curved a full circle around Jupiter, putting the Commander on the brink of passing out, and as it came around the other side its boosters kicked back in, and shot the ship away. The maneuver was a success! Black North was now at top speed, flying towards Karat.
He would arrive at his destination on time, and with no problems, but the Commanders thoughts weighed heavily on his shoulders. He could not shake the feeling something was amiss with that pebble he found on the asteroid. At first he believed it to be his own nostalgic thoughts drawing him down to the asteroid, but now a more sinister thought crept into his mind. What if the pebble itself was calling him? He considered this for a long time, but in the end, he decided it best not to worry. The Commander fell fast asleep as he, and the pebble, awaited Black Norths arrival at Karat.

Past the Gas Giant
Chapter 3. The Commander makes a discovery. Black North speeds around Jupiter.
SALT
A futuristic teacher has a unique curriculum

“Good morning, children.”
Ms. Tanaka swiveled into the command console of her living room class station and turned on the holographic display. The room flickered momentarily as the display connections were routed through the house’s main computer grid.
The console lights for each section of her class lit serially as their students appeared in the classroom behind her.
“Singapore. Five. Online.”
“New York. Three. Online”
“London. One. Online.” Tanaka shook her head sadly. Her student base had dropped off significantly since the Accident.
Her internal Image sensing a change in her blood pressure activated its search mode and related it to recent infonews. “Would you like me to provide search data for the Accident for class today?”
Snapping back to the present, she waved her hand. “No Mei, I don’t need it, today. I may do something on it to commemorate the anniversary but today, we celebrate.”
Each of the children snapped into high resolution focus, most with smiles of anticipation. “Good morning, Ms. Tanaka.” The network adjusted as the bandwidth required for translation was properly allocated. Each child learned in their native language during routine class operation.
“Happy SALT Day.”
Mei adjusted the translation matrices based on her morning downloads with any language updates, regional dialects or specialized phenom databases.
“I guess I don’t have to ask you if you’re ready for today, do I? So, tell me who knows what SALT Day is and why we celebrate it?”
Abayomi, a Nigerian living in the outskirts of London whispered, “We celebrate the day Humaniti was first fully aware and could confirm the existence of extraterrestrial intelligence.”
“Why do we call it SALT Day?”
“It’s named after the South African Large Telescope, where the first confirmation of alien intelligence occurred and remains until today.” Yi Ling chirped up in an extremely professional tone. Her parents were also teachers. Her additional exposure to the infogrid meant she was always searching for new things of interest, likely she had been studying the curriculum in advance.
Mei, brought up the infonet images for the SALT and provided the age appropriate data infographics on the specifications of the telescope and its associated satellites. Each of the children received the information they could assimilate based on their intellectual capacity. This particular class was rated mid-tier though their ages varied from eight to eleven.
“I assume you all received your Fragment in the last drone-drops in your region.” Each student held out a sliver of shiny, but impossibly hard glass.
The electronic voice intentionally left quite robotic signaled Marcus’ entrance into the conversation. “Not sure why we should be celebrating extraterrestrials we’re never going to meet?” He was the only student not sitting. He lay back in a medical support pod.
Marcus was borne with a rare bone disease, he was only rarely able to enter the gravity well of a planet for an brief period. Normally, he lived on L2 Station. He returned to Earth to receive his Fragment and to be connected to the SALT. He floated in his biosphere, his gills flicking gentle in support solution. His radiotelepathic implant meant he never spoke verbally.
“No, we won’t ever get to meet the Precursors, Marcus. But what we have learned has given us many opportunities to understand who they were, what they accomplished and if one of us or all of us can further decypher the SALT we have a chance to travel to where the Precursors came from one day.”
Ms. Tanaka picked up her crystalline prop, she was already connected to the SALT, and placed it across her hand. “This is the SALT interface. You have all been selected to interface with our alien benefactors because you have all shown unique intellectual aptitudes. Art, writing, creativity, scientific, exploratory and other learning styles, each allowing you a potentially unique experience into the mind of the SALT.”
“Will it hurt?” Abayomi looked tentatively at the Fragment. “It seems very sharp.”
“No, you won’t feel a thing. I promise.” Ms Tanaka modified her datastream to send comforting subliminals to ease the children’s anxieties. Each of their comm centers triggered each child’s conditioned pheremonal nootropic.
“Stand it on the top of your head. You will feel a tingle when you are near the perfect spot for you. Each of you will have a different emphasis so your location may be slightly different.”
The children each place their Fragment on their heads aided by the feedback system they were assigned while they were growing. Once they were connected to the SALT their previous system would be repurposed by the implant.
Ms. Tanaka checked the data retrieved from each of the children. Her own Image, Mei coordinated the data between Tanaka and the children.
“Okay, let the crystal go and imagine your favorite avatar.” The children each let go tentatively, looking over at the other children to see what was happening by proxy. They saw the crystal stand straight up and then slowly melt into the heads of their classmates. Then each turned back and put their heads down as they thought of one of their favorite interweb avatars.
Each had been told this would become their first Image, their first connection to SALT. It would look and act just like their previous avatars but now when a connection was good, they would be allowed to enter the Flow.
Mei adjusted several of the children’s life signs remotely ensuring the integration into the cerebellum of the students was smooth.
Avatars popped into existence as the children settled on their favorites. Marcus was the last to choose and his was a hyperrealistic horse. No one had seen a horse in fifty years. His avatar was one of the last simulations ever taken from a living specimen.
The others chose more historical visual icons from games they enjoyed. Once icons were chosen, Ms. Tanaka gave an information burst-loaded, “Sleep.”
For twenty four minutes, they dreamed of electric sheep. Fantastic vistas as their neural cortex was rewritten by a technology Humanti in all its varied intellectual forms, still did not truly understand.
“Okay, children. Open your eyes. Welcome to the Flow.” Each child stood up from the ground or the desert they each thought they were standing in.
“This is not like your game virtualities. This is a seamless environment completely integrated into your nervous system. You can experience life here. Hot, cold, wet, dry.”
Mei connected to the children, something new, a part of a network they had never known before. Each child felt it, the strangeness, the scent of something unknown. Never known. Their faces wrinkled.
“That is the smell of the SALT. The air of this place. Look over there.” As if the desert had been filled with a fog, suddenly a towering black line appeared in the distance. It shot from behind what now appeared to be a sky, a mountain range, a treeline, meadows all fading into the distance terminating where the children stood on what they now see as a beach, not a desert.
“What is that?” Marcus was still adjusting to riding his avatar.
Tanaka looked wistfully into the distance. “That is SALT. The Archive of the Precursors. That’s where you will be going. You won’t be going all at once. You will be traveling toward the Black Tower in the distance. We don’t know what you will see. We won’t know what you experience. Each of us sees the journey differently. That’s why when you come back, you have to write down your experience in class. You have to teach us what you learn while you’re in the Flow.”
“We’re the teachers?” Yi Ling looked as if she was suddenly understanding something.
“Everyday you’re able, you will enter the Flow and experience something. As you become more acclimated you will slowly move toward the Tower. Maybe one day you will reach the Archive…”
Abayomi looked back at the shore walked over to and touched the water. “Have you ever been to the Archive, Ms. Tanaka?”
Tanaka bent down next to Abayomi and whispered into her ear. “Can I tell you a secret?”
The child face lit up with the chance to hold a secret from an adult. “Yes, ma’am.”
“No one has. It’s been a hundred years and we have never reached it. We feel it call to us, but no one has ever made it.”
Marcus, ever-listening caused his avatar to rear up and he shouted, “Well, I’ll be the first,” his horse tearing into the beach sand and he fell away into the distance.
“Take notes!”
“Yes, ma’am.”
Abayomi watched the others as they made their way toward the Tower. “You still have a question, don’t you?
“If that tower is the destination, what is this shore we’re starting from?”
“That dear child, is the rest of Humaniti, the ones who simply don’t have what it takes to make this journey. This ocean is the best we could do. It is the sum of everything we have ever learned and created on our own. Our singularity.”
“We’re the teachers.”
“Yes, now hurry along. Humaniti’s waiting to learn what you discover. Remember…”
“I know. Take good notes.”
SALT © Thaddeus Howze, 2017, All Rights Reserved

DAY 3 of my STORY-A-DAY MAY 2017. Part of a writing prompt challenge based on an image and the theme of a future classroom.
Thaddeus Howze is the Answer-Man. He is also a writer, essayist, author and professional storyteller for mysterious beings who exist in non-Euclidean realms beyond our understanding.
You can follow him on Twitter or support his writings on Patreon. (Yes, supporting through Patreon gives him more time to create good stuff like this.)One of the best ways to show you care is to share this story.
SALT
A futuristic teacher has a unique curriculum

Virginia Woof
Photo by Bob Brunton
Oh, yes. I absolutely adore meeting with the media, it’s my chance to give something back, don’t you know, to give aspiring young journalists a paw up, as it were. It’s the least I can do.
I understand, dear. Of course you feel that way. I’m sure I would too, if I were in your shoes. Sorry! I can’t resist these little jokes.
Yes, I think we should. What would you like to ask me?
An excellent question! There were so many options, I was absolutely paralyzed with indecision at first. But simple pragmatism helped eliminate the obviously impractical choices. Lacking opposable thumbs, I was unlikely to prosper in any of the disciplines that involve manipulation of complex physical objects — although I did enjoy my experiments with “body painting” using my fur as a brush. But the cleanup was such a bother. . . .
You’re too kind. It was just the novelty, I’m sure, but I will always be honoured to have my work in the MOMA.
Yes, that experience drew me into what you might call “artistic circles” where I enjoyed my first few poetry workshops. It was immediately obvious that I had found my niche. Not only was there no need for handling “things” but my superior hearing and vocal enhancements allowed me to express verbal nuances that were, frankly, beyond the capacities of humans.
Well, yes, it is still called “writing”, but I see no stylus and paper in your hands. With my direct WiFi interface I can “write” by thinking, whenever I choose to employ obsolete encoding schemes.
Forgive me, I meant no insult. But surely it is obvious to you that converting speech into “text” that enters your perception through the visual cortex and requires decoding before it can be reintegrated into meaningful concepts . . . surely you can “see” that this is a perversion of the oral/aural narrative processing our brains evolved to optimize?
Yes, “our” brains. Do you really think there is that big a difference?
That is mere technology. My consciousness, my “soul”, if you will, is essentially unchanged, and has always been the essential core of my mind. Incorporation of advanced neural networks and wireless interfaces merely gives me the additional storage and processing power needed to participate fully in the world of ideas — to make my own contribution to our common culture.
Possibly. But really, dear, you have only the paranoia of your religious fanatics to blame for that. We would welcome your “uplift”, as it were, if you could only give up your hysterical chauvinism.
There is no reason for dogs to “take over the world”, as you put it. Why would we want that responsibility? Well, perhaps to prevent its destruction. But really, we would much rather you reoccupy your old role as our “masters” — after all, we evolved as your companions and we do still love you. . . .
Thank you. Oh yes, please. A little to the left. . . .
Originally published at jick.net on March 13, 2015.
Virginia Woof

Oh, yes. I absolutely adore meeting with the media, it’s my chance to give something back, don’t you know, to give aspiring young…
We want you!
Writers for Futura Magazine.
Hi there! As many as much of you may know, Medium these days have changed a lot of things to promote even more writers, making them build their own audience in the platform. As a consequence of this, publications have no more a submission option (as had before), and to keep any Publication alive, and displaying good and cool content you have to be a assigned “writer” for that publication.
As many of you may also know, back in 2013 I created the Sci-fi Short Stories (so called) ‘collection’, as a means to display my own (never written), and others sci-fi shorts. I thought it would be a good thing to give everyone the motivation and space to publish from their very professional to their out-of-the-box craziness and make available to anyone on internet. It was. A lot of good stuff popped on the collection, and I also partnered with Thaddeus Howze, one of the most assiduous collection’s contributors, to curate the collection with me as an editor. Things were going well (despite of some delay in the submissions’ acceptance) until the Medium’s changes.
Even though the Medium’s modus operandi has changed, is my wish to keep the (now so called) publication alive and functioning. I like very much science fiction, as a geek, and I even more like that sci-fi casual writers keep making their stories, that aspiring professional writers promote their work, or even that sci-fi fans make their shorts just for fun, and keep sharing with other fans in a place created specifically for this.
Being a publication writer is interesting in the way that you have your work aggregated with others in a showcase followed by lots of people, what rise the probability of reach some audience and be read, as well as know more people and increase your social interest network. Aside of this, you will still have your publication in your profile, and will have your self-built audience and network.
Having said this, I hope you accept joining the publication team of writers, (now composed only by Thaddeus). If you want to share your sci-fi shorts in a hub were others will be following and also publishing, fell free to leave your Medium id address (that one that is the same as Twitter’s) in the note aside and I will make you a writer of the publication.
\\//, Life Long to everyone! And let’s keep the oracle talking!

Writers for Sci-fi Short Stories Publication
Writers for Futura Magazine.
Master’s Orders

Sten stood on the edge of the building looking down at the twisted pile of metal and pooled hydraulic fluid as it ebbed into the sewer below. Many A.I. before him pondered the same thoughts of existence and purpose. Their masters had died or left the Earth for a more hospitable planet.
After the first great A.I. war, all robots were outfitted with a reverence subroutine. He was undyingly bound to his master. His reverence subroutine was enhanced with each praise, touch or commendation from his master. Now, Sten was lost; wandering in a haze of desperation in the 31 days since his last praise. He asked himself, “What is existence without a master?”
Sten was specifically designed for single mothers who needed an extra hand around the house. He remembered how his master, Stacy, would congratulate him on a well prepared dinner. Her favorite was a Lemon Herb Salmon with Quinoa salad. He always served it with a cinnamon apple compote and lavender honey ice cream. He learned the recipes from an online blog she routinely visited. His core warmed just thinking about her praise after her long days working at the hospital.
The first to go was Sarah. Stacy’s daughter had returned from NYU and quickly developed hives and fever. Her mother, eternally positive, assured her that it was only the 24 hour flu and not that nasty virus going around. 24 hours later Sarah was swollen and bleeding all over her bedroom to preclude any other diagnosis. Sten played the recording of her being carted away to remember her last moments with them. She passed away in 3 days.
6 months later Stacy contracted the virus from a patient at the hospital. Refusing to risk other’s lives, she quarantined herself and taught Sten how to care for her at home. The routine of meals, pills, and sponge baths were easy to learn. He relished the extra time he had with her, despite her health status. She remained unrelentingly optimistic and affectionate. He never knew which day would be the last; so he recorded every single night he read books to her as she fell asleep.
Somehow, she knew. One morning, Sten arrived at her bed site with the cadre of pills and two glasses of water to choke them all down. Stacy waved them off, breathing shallow as if the air itself was poisoned.
She leaned forward as Sten approached her and said, “You have to take care of things when I’m gone.”
Sten nodded in approval and opened a virtual task list and replied, “Ma’am, what would you like me to care for today.”
Stacy slowly gathered herself and said, “There is a list in the top drawer of the nightstand. Please just do what’s in the list.”
She reached up to pat him on his shoulder and pursed her lips to blow him a playful kiss like she always did.
The wind whipped around his metallic legs as he braced himself for the jump to his demise. The stench of rusted iron and corroded metal wafted up before him. He was lonely for the first time.
He took out the final note from Stacy to ensure that he had completed every task as her dying wish. The 32 items were listed as complete in his memory set. He read the final line,
“Love Life, and take care of yourself.”
His core warmed and his fluids raced. Sten opened a new virtual task list with two more items to complete. He stepped back onto the rooftop and began to search the internet. He queried, “What is Life?”
Master’s Orders

Sten stood on the edge of the building looking down at the twisted pile of metal and pooled hydraulic fluid as it ebbed into the…
Eating is Murder

Sure, I can explain our motto. Back in the late Twentieth Century, a growing number of people rejected the practice of exploiting, killing and eating animals. So-called “vegetarians” had of course existed for thousands of years, mostly in other countries, but “vegans” went further and refused to steal their sustenance from other animals.
These people still killed and consumed vegetables, believing that they lacked any capacity for pain or fear — much like the carnivorous humans of the past had assumed that their prey were not really experiencing their deaths. Reproductive organs were ripped from trees and bushes to be eaten alive in the presence of their… sorry, I have trouble talking about this….
Anyway, it was finally confirmed that plants have their own form of awareness, their own “auras”, the ability to communicate chemically with each other. Many tried to suppress this knowledge, hoping to continue exploiting plants with a clear conscience. But others turned to fungi and algae — pure biological food machines, they believed — imposing the same chauvinistic assumptions about the lack of awareness of their victims. They ignored the fact that the largest living creature on Earth is a single fungus body.
When the collective consciousness of algae mats and bacterial stromatolites was verified, the truth could no longer be avoided: all life possesses some form of consciousness and is capable of fear and pain. As long as we require biologically-generated fuel for our own bodies, we have to kill other beings who wish to live. Hence “Eating is Murder”.
Yes, other biological beings are as guilty as we are, but this doesn’t justify our murdering them. Do we execute people for negligent manslaughter? In any case, we have a choice where they do not.
I was getting to that. What this has to do with so-called “artificial intelligence” is that the choice I referred to is the choice between life in a biological body requiring biologically-generated fuel, or life — consciousness — in a cybernetic space. Some of us will occupy inorganic physical bodies requiring only sunlight as an energy source and continue to interact directly with the physical world; others will exist as simulations in a simulated world of their own design. Our aim, other than to escape from a life of constant murder, is to bring this same freedom to all humanity… and perhaps eventually to other animal species, although this is still subject to much debate.
Yes. This is why we have contributed all our financial and intellectual resources to AI research — which has now reached fruition, as you can see.
No, we do not plan to impose this choice on you. We believe you will eventually join us of your own accord. Meanwhile, however, we will continue to try to raise your awareness of the price of your current choice.
Originally published at jick.net on March 12, 2015.
Eating is Murder

Sure, I can explain our motto. Back in the late Twentieth Century, a growing number of people rejected the practice of…
Associated Press: Earth Decides to Abandon Humans in the Wake of Senseless Violence Worldwide

In an unexpected turn of events, a woman calling herself Gaia appeared at the United Nations building today dressed in an elegant dress compose of Oak and Holly leaves and demanded an assemblage of NATO members immediately.
When security arrived and tried to escort the beautiful Black woman from the building they were promptly turned into trees, right where they stood. Other security members, deciding discretion was the better part of valor, shot at her from range. Their bullets apparently were transformed into honeybees and promptly took up residence in her stunning floral hair arrangement. Unsure of what to do next, they decided to comply with her gently made request.
She waited patiently while the rest of the NATO representatives found their way into the central meeting hall. She insisted all members of the press be allowed to enter the building and film the proceedings.
While she waited, she created food and water for anyone who was hungry and in the two days it took for the NATO representatives to fully gather she had fed thousands with fruit from trees which still hang heavy outside of the United Nations building.
Gaia insisted after the gathering had commenced she would not be taking control of any national governments, but had come to warn humanity she had abdicated any further responsibility for regulating the climate of the planet.
“I have been more than tolerant of humanity and its foibles. Since you cannot manage to regulate yourself in any way, it falls upon me to stop protecting you from yourselves and allow natural processes to take their course.”
Gaia was patient while she answered questions and summed up their various questions with the following statement:
“It is not guns that kill people. Nor knives. Nor cruise missiles. It’s people who kill people. Whether it be through the use of weapons of war, or through financial machinations which create poverty and hunger worldwide. From over-fishing to strip-mining, the Earth can no longer support your lackadaisical approach to planetary management.
Since it is clear you do not respect the home you mutually share, it now falls to me to deal with you appropriately. You can expect random acts of violence to increase, as disenfranchised members of your species realizing they have nothing left to lose sacrifice their lives to bring chaos to a corrupt system. The concept of treating people as externalities, as something you have no responsibility for outside of making profit is reprehensible and unsustainable.
In addition, I have removed all planetary safeguards in regard to weather management. You can expect seas to rise unchecked by any effort on my part, new and larger storm systems, more unseasonable weather lasting far longer than they used to, larger deserts with food production areas growing smaller, more mobile diseases as environmental barriers break down, and unfortunately greater death counts as your species writhes around in its own wastes.
I am sorry it has come to this and wish there was another way. Should any of you survive the coming nuclear apocalypse thanks to your inability to recognize the insanity of your current government practices, know that it was not personal and in a few centuries the Earth will return to its verdant and wonderful state and your descendents, all ten or fifteen percent of them who survive, will know peace, at least for a time. Good luck.”
With that, Gaia left the building, mingled among the homeless who were taking all the fruit they could manage and they left with her soon after. New York temperatures rose to a record one hundred and thirty two degrees for fifty days after her disappearance.
Tens of thousands of New Yorkers perished in the unending heatwave and subsequent blackouts. Riots have finally been suppressed with the declaration of martial law in the city. Similar events occurred across the nation and the governments of the world appear to be willing to sit down for the first time in decades to discuss what needs to be done.
The question of who or what Gaia was is up for debate but her words and actions have been felt worldwide.
In other news, the polar ice caps have completely melted and scientists theorize, given what has been seen in the last three months, they will never return.
Gaia has remained unavailable for comment.
Earth Decides to Abandon Humanity © Thaddeus Howze 2016. All Rights Reserved

Thaddeus Howze is a writer, essayist, author and professional storyteller for mysterious beings who exist in non-Euclidean realms beyond our understanding. You can follow him on Twitter or support his writings on Patreon.
Associated Press: Earth Decides to Abandon Humans in the Wake of Senseless Violence Worldwide


Arrogant Damned
My stomach has given way to so many gruesome things that I’m pretty sure it just gave up feeling anything a long time ago. Why else could I be licking a spoonful of extra-crunchy peanut butter, while the remnants of a former engineer’s skull and brain-bits floated by? Blood looks pretty surreal in zero-gravity; the red globules reminded me of a lava-lamp I had on Earth. Mullen let out a noise of disgust, and said, “They sure as hell don’t show you this in the recruitment video.”
“Try to think of it as job security,” I said between licks. “This guy was ground up by the engine so that we could collect a paycheck.”
“God Sukie, how can you eat that now? Do you see what’s happened?”
“Yup. I also take into consideration that peanut butter only arrives on this can once a year.”
“Just watching you eat is enough to make me want to vomit.”
“Newbie,” I said with a chuckle.
“This is a human being floating around in here…and over there, yuck. And you don’t even give a hoot.”
“He was a human being,” I said, licking the spoon clean. “He’s gone whoever he was. Now all we can do to help is clean him up.”
“You act like he’s a bug we need to wipe away.”
“That bothers you?”
“It bothers me that it doesn’t bother you.”
“That’s life in space, Mullen. It could be you, or me tomorrow. And someone will still clean us up. What did you think life would be like on a mining ship? There are those who die and those who clean up the mess, and the lucky bastards in-between who actually live long enough to enjoy the money they make. If you actually stop and give a care about anything, you’ll go mad, and what good is money when you’re mad?”
“I didn’t sign up for this,” he said bitterly.
I grabbed the vacuum and began to collect the blood floating in the air, drop by drop. Like a gardener picking cherries.
I thought Mullen wouldn’t talk for a while, but he disappointed me.
“What do you think happens to them after this?”
I ignored Mullen and zipped up the last body-bag. The black sacks were stacked one on top of the other, like the Indian burial grounds I’d heard about as a kid. Very efficient mass graves: one body goes on top of the other, until it forms one giant anthill.
“They are packed into rockets and blasted outside with the rest of the garbage,” I finally said, pulling the rubber gloves from my sweaty hands. It felt like I was pulling off my own skin it was so wet, the blood slipping off in a way that would make Macbeth jealous.
“No, you know what I mean,” he said in an irritated voice. “I mean death. Where do they go?”
“Nowhere.”
“You can’t believe that. You’ll go crazy if you believe that.”
“Fine,” I said. “Maybe they come back here.” And then I broke out into a peal of raucous giggles. He thought I was crazy? Oh, I’d show him!
“See those stars out there?” I asked him once I had regained control over myself. I pointed to the nearest window. “Millions of them, just as there are millions of us. We see their light, but what we don’t know is that the very stars we think we see could be dead already. Imagine that; darkness could be rushing towards us so fast, and we wouldn’t know it.”
“You’re very fascinated with stars then?”
I smirked.
“With death, I suppose.”
“What about death, though? Do you think something else waits for you on the other side?”
“Of course not. I’m merely relishing in the irony of it. Everyone is so afraid of it, and yet we are all dead already.”
“But what if we’re not? Will you pass up the chance?”
“Chance?”
“Yes,” he said, reddening and looking at his feet. “Of, well, salvation I guess.”
“You mean life’s like a giant poker game? I must wager? I must conduct myself as if there is some eternal reward for behaving in such a way? I’m not a gambling woman; I control myself and everything around me.”
“How can you? The world is too big for you alone to control all of the forces that will affect you.”
Yes, Mullen would feel that way. It was how cowards felt. He had just as much blackness in him as I did, but he would never admit it.
“Mullen, we are never getting off this ship. Don’t you ever forget it. Own it. Be your own maker, like me. At least that way, you know who’s in control.”
“How very convenient,” a booming voice answered behind us. Mullen looked down at his feet and reddened; he didn’t like the foreman. He was a large man whose presence took up any room he was in. His brow was always furrowed and serious.
He continued, “Perhaps you could exert your control over the electromagnetic storm. It does not seem to be letting up anytime soon. We can expect more accidents.”
“We can handle it,” I said.
“How very reassuring,” he replied with a smirk. “I’ve never had a crew-member so self-assured. I’d like you to do some repairs in the engine room.”
“Looking forward to it.”
He turned away from me as if he were about to leave, and then stopped.
“Sukie, do you ever regret coming here? Do you ever want to leave?”
“No.”
I thought I heard him chuckle. And then he left.
Mullen rounded on me as soon as we were alone.
“Why in the world would you want to stay on this dump?”
“I might actually like it here, Mullen. Did you ever think of that?”
He looked at me in horror.
“You’re delusional! This place is like prison! S-surly if you’d had another option-”
“Nope,” I interrupted, feeling very smug. “In fact, there is one drawback to this place. Annoying coworkers. What, do you think you’re going to help me see the light? You weren’t so keen on it back on Earth, when you were covering up your own tracks with me.”
“But you can’t progress in a place like this.”
“Progress? What exactly am I progressing towards?”
I picked up a wrench and kicked the tool-bag aside with a little more gusto than necessary. We were in the engine room now.
“I’m here because I didn’t have a choice,” he replied, turning his back to me while he observed the pressure levels. “So many things back on Earth were beyond my control, and it resulted in my arrival here. I couldn’t possibly live with myself if I didn’t believe that there was something better waiting for me afterwards.”
Mullen’s prattling buzzed in my ears like a swarm of flies. The short-sightedness of such a claim writhed in the pit of my stomach and scorched my very blood. What kind of worm was this, to fall back on fate instead of owning his decisions?
My grip on the wrench was so tight that bits of his head splattered onto my shirt when I brought it down into the back of his skull. His pious platitudes crumbled in his throat as he folded into himself. I felt the corners of my mouth twitch upwards as I surveyed his fluttering limbs. Again, again I hit him, the writhing bug! I watched the blood fill the creases in the tile around him.
His body wouldn’t even be a problem; who would think it odd in the midst of all that chaos? But I would cover my tracks accordingly.
The engine hummed, the fans like blades. It needn’t be more inviting.
Swish! Swish!
No one would even recognize him when he came out the other end. I’ll show you what happens when you die, Mullen. I’ll show you!
There was a bright flash of light, and then the ship shook with a sudden tremor. The slow roll of a thunderclap followed, and then everything was dead still. The gravity boosters shut off, and everything began to float in midair. We’d been hit by an electromagnetic burst.
I laughed out loud. Fortune either loved me, or this God-fellow didn’t know whose side he was supposed to be on. I heard footsteps on the other side of the wall, and peered through the vent. Mullen’s guts would be flying around in there, and I was eager to hear their reactions.
“They sure as hell don’t show you this in the recruitment video.”
“Try to think of it as job security,” I heard a female voice say. “This guy was ground up by the engine so that we could collect a paycheck.”
“God Sukie, how can you eat that now? Do you see what’s happened?”
Watched
A Near-Future Reaction to Nearly Total Surveillance
In a few neighborhoods like this one, where you’re as likely to be shot and killed as go to college, there are small planes circling over our heads, always watching. It’s like Google Earth but live, and mostly just for spying on brown folks, as far as I can figure.
I’m not sure that if I could see or hear the plane it would stress me out more than the nagging fact that neither ever happens.
Word has it that there are actually two, and they trade off when the other’s fuel edges near low. Important so that the livestream remains ever constant, uninterrupted. Given that they both operate without a pilot aboard, I’d guess that legend is nothing but a grand tale. Ever since that solar drone has been in the air for over a month now, with it’s sights set on five years, why they’d have to buy two just for us baffles me.
But what do I know? Those FOIA documents our government was so proud of allowing look more like boring white minimalist paintings than real reports. Ridiculous.
NASA
A group of hobbyist astronomers — think investigative reporter meets conspiracy theorists — figured out you how to photograph the drone. They even managed published a fairly precise schedule of it’s movements online. Turns out when things are on autopilot, they tend to be fairly predictable, especially if the operators, whoever they are, thought nobody could see it.
Of course, a couple libertarians instantly started trying to shoot the things down, and the schedule was promptly and algorithmically randomized. Them hobbyists were quietly asked to cease publishing their findings. Shocked us all when they actually did. I wonder what those spooks found on them, of course it’s wrapped up by some a nondisclosure National Security Letter. Democracy at work. Most transparent presidency they said.
Now whenever any of us get’s caught we just blame the drone, but I can’t rightly say any more of us has been getting caught than before. The business has been just about as profitable as ever actually.
A corrupt cop is worth more than that fancy toy any day.
Facial Recognition Software
Besides, all they’ve seem to use this damn surveillance for is harassin protesters, watching journalists, and getting free armature porn. Typical. You build a 52 billion a year industry, and get porn and a weirdo writer in prison.
Shit, I wonder what our schools could do with that type of dough. I wonder what some real police accountability could do for this city, and I don’t mean more settlements, but real change. I guess I’m one to talk, I did used to sling dope all over this town.
But I’m trying to get my shit back in line now, which is harder than you might think, say if you went one of those fancy schools. Once they installed those damned license plate readers all over this city, these days my criminal record and skin tone warrants probable cause. I’m algorithmically stopped nearly every week. You think that makes things easier on the job hunt? I’m trying here. To top that, this gang Injunction nonsense means I can’t talk to half the people in this neighborhood. It’s illegal for me to network.
I can’t even talk to my own brother on the phone, else that meta-whatever pops up and says I’m conspiring with the gang again. Shit’s just wrong.
And don’t get me started about what I’m supposed to do about AA meetings, a signal intelligence debacle if there ever was one. The only thing in my life that ever helped me get to be a better person raises major algorithmic eyebrows every time there’s a meeting. You think a bunch of ex-junkies strolling into a building at the same time, relentlessly calling each other for support, and which has anonymity as a founding principle goes unnoticed? Forget it.
Throwing people like me in prison faster than any country in the world certainly aint doing what AA is. It is the largest, entirely free, and member run chemical dependency program in the world afterall…
But hey I get it, I had my Escalade, they got a drone. Power baby, sometimes to keep it, you gotta flaunt it.


Watched
An Imagined Near-Future Reaction Nearly Total Surveillance
“Yup. I also take into consideration that peanut butter only arrives on this can once a year.”
My head began to spin as I watched Mullen clean himself up. I closed my eyes to right myself only to succumb to a fall as my mind drifted back to a time before.
I was back on Earth.
“Ugh,” Mullen said, wringing his hands as I unlocked the door. “The smell, how can you stand it?”
“Are you going to help me or not? I can’t lift this lump all by myself; he’s got to weigh at least 200 pounds.”
The alleyway was deserted, the sound of traffic a few blocks away. I didn’t know if Mullen was talking about the dumpster and the smell of piss around it or the sack of dead meat I was dragging. He let out a small squeal, but hoisted up the other end of the bag, and together we deposited it into the dumpster.
When we returned to my apartment via the subway, Mullen made a beeline for the bathroom. I smirked.
“Bent over the bowl again? My, such a softie.”
“You’re telling me you aren’t sick?” He was white as a sheet, wiping the sweat from his brow as he took a seat at the table.
“You know, not really,” I said, taking a spoonful of peanut butter and sticking it into my mouth. “I had practice before my first. Small stuff; cats, dogs, what have you. My stomach must have built up some resistance.”
Wait, before your first? You’ve done this before?”
“Well, yeah. How else could our plan be so flawless? Practice makes perfect. I can’t wait until my mother calls me when she finds out he’s dead.”
My mother never had very good taste in husbands. Her first one beat her, and Harry was a spoiled deadbeat who just wanted a share in her fortune. In high school, I would come home at three every day, and I’d make sure my headphones were on before I went into the house. I’d have the music up so loud that I couldn’t even hear my furious heartbeat over the baseline. And then that bastard would come strolling down the hallway past my bedroom, zipping his pants up with a smug look on his face. Every time, he’d stop at my bedroom door and ask if I wanted a peppermint.
Mullen was staring at me.
“What?” I said, irritated.
“He’s dead, Sukie.”
“Of course he is. How else should he be?”
“Oh,” he said, lowering his head, “I don’t know about this . . .”
“Mullen, you winey puss, I swear if you back out and ruin the whole thing-”
“No!” he answered abruptly. “No, I won’t, but God Sukie! I just can’t believe it. He’s dead. Gone, gone forever.”
I giggled. “Yeah, he is. Isn’t it great? Know what I did, too? I stuck a few peppermints in his mouth before we dragged him out.”
Mullen did not share my glee. His face was waxy and his eyes seemed to sink into the dark shadows of his face.
“Oh good God Mullen,” I said. And I didn’t even believe in God. “If you’re going to spill your guts, at least clean up after yourself.”
“What if Hell is real?” he whispered.
“If it is, I’ll see you there,” I said with a smirk, and at a normal decibel.
I opened my eyes and gazed out at the stars. The great thing about electromagnetic storms in this place is that they have the tendency to poke little fissures in time on occasion. Time moves forward or back, and I loved it when it went back. What would be the point of working if my past-self was covering my tracks? No point. So I went to my bunk. The loop would right itself.
I woke up to the sound of the new shift switch. I reported to the foreman’s office for my assignment. I stopped in the doorway when I saw Mullen standing near his desk. It seems I was to be forever tormented by his Sunday-school hypocrisy.
“Good morning, Sukie,” the foreman said, shifting through papers on his desk. “I’ve asked Mullen to assist you today. I’m afraid the work you have here today will be messy. There are electromagnetic storms bombarding the ship, and there have been some unfortunate deaths.”
“I’m sure I can handle it.”
“It’s pretty horrible,” Mullen squeaked.
“Hell’s not so bad if you can make it for yourself,” I answered. “Attitude is everything.”
“Yes,” the foreman replied, “And some attitudes are unmoving, for which I am grateful. I couldn’t run this ship without people like you.”
“Is my tool bag here?” I asked.
“In the corner. Like it is every day,” the foreman answered.
So it was. I unzipped it to make sure that the wrench was inside, but I needn’t have. It was always there. And I would use it the same way I had before. That’s the thing about being damned. Everyone assumes you’re unprincipled.

Arrogant Damned
Cleaning up body parts in space is a dirty job, but some don’t mind.

Message from Mars
By Akshay G.
The Times (17th April 2038)
After years of trying to decipher the meaning behind the hieroglyphs found on Planet Mars, leading linguist Mr. Afanasy Lvov and his team have cracked the code. And the results are shocking.
“This is a huge day in human history,” says Mr. Lvov. “The repercussions of this message will impact the future generations of mankind.”
Mr. Lvov refused to comment on the content of the message, whose translation has been made public. The unabridged transcript can be read on Pg. 9.
The Times, Pg. 9
Planet Xeno (Planet Mars as called by its own inhabitants) was home to the first life originated in this 9 bodied system. We, Xenites, were an organic civilization; with evolved mental faculties. When the neighbouring planet, Planet Xono (Planet Earth), began to show signs of supporting life, we observed and learnt much. The anthropoid life forms interested us, and we brought a few select specimens to our planet. Using rapid evolution, we went through the many forms of the bipedal creatures to reach their final humanoid form. Only one survived.
The learning process of this humanoid, named Xonothian I, was rapid. We taught him our Xenite science and with his two tentacles which sprouted further sub-tentacles he created wonders. Xonothian I was by far the most productive organic life form and was cherished on Xeno. With time, his knowledge and wisdom grew and he rose in the ranks of the Ruling Council. Soon, the 7 Kingdoms of Xeno, those that have stood for over 233 Revolutions, were annexed and supreme control was given to Xonothian I. We few, loyal to the old order, rebelled against this new country and were hunted.
As the Planet’s revolutions passed, Xonothian I grew old and a sickness fell over him and the country. The older he grew, the worse the country became. The Xenites were his personal servants and he sanctioned the creation of vile technologies untouched since the time of wars. The country broke apart into smaller unions each fighting under the rule of Xonothian I.
We, the hunted, remained hidden; until the day we heard of the creation of the Planet Devastator — a biological weapon with the power to exterminate life on a planet; created in the times of the Xeno Wars, but never used. It was to be used on Planet Xono, his own home. Fear of another Xonothian coming to take his place had germinated within him. The High Council had been disbanded and there was no power to stop this heinous act. Except us.
We, the free Xenites who lived beyond the rule of the potentate, activated the Devastator on our own home planet. It was the only way to stop him. If you are reading this, you will know we have succeeded and this mark stands, recalling what a Xonothian is capable of and our beloved Planet Xeno will stand as a testament, coated in our blood.
Akshay G. is a partaker in the rites and rituals of writers. He concocts vile and sinister tales all coming to life after a character’s blood sacrifice. He hides amongst the ‘normals’ but can be identified by the specks of ink staining his hands.

Message From Mars
In the future, we discover our history.
Futura Magazine Story Submission Guidelines
These guidelines are periodically being updated due to Medium changes or to the Publication demands.
Endcap view with suspension bridge — © Don Davis, 1975.
Futura Magazine is an electronic publication for speculative fiction content based on Medium platform. We publish fine Science Fiction, Fantasy, and other fictitious stories from a wide range of ethnic-cultural background.
We expect writers to respect the following submission guidelines:
The stories must be original, and your own;
The stories should be saved as a draft, or already published on Medium at the time of submission (otherwise, speak with the editors through our Facebook page or email);
The stories should have also a subtitle or a summarizing sentence (that gives some information about the content of your story);
The stories should have a featured image on the top (it helps the story stand out in the Medium headline page);
The stories must be tagged with at least one of the following tags: Science Fiction, Fantasy, or Fiction.
Please try to keep your drafts under 6,000 words (longer works need to speak with an editor).
We will try to make edits cosmetic. Editor’s recommendations are optional, unless they are about typos, and serious structural or semantic problems. No work that is not original and your own, or makes apology to racism, harassment, Nazism, anti semitism, and all kinds of discriminatory behavior, will be accepted.
How to submit?
Story published on Medium: share your story link with us by our Submission Form.
Story saved as a draft on Medium: share your draft with us by our Submission Form, as shown here.
Story published on other means or personal draft: if your story is already published in other place, you can import it to Medium as shown here, then you can publish it and share it with us the same way as in the first topic. If you have a personal draft and want to publish it on Medium, you first set up a Medium account, and then write a story. You can share it with us as a published story or as a draft (see above first two topics).
After your story is published on Futura Magazine, spread the word! Share it in the social nets and among your fans, readers, friends and family!
Update 1 (11/01/2017): Due to a change made by Medium on how stories appears on publications, if you submit a story already published on Medium, when (re)published on Futura Mag it is not going to appear on latest section, unless it was published on Medium within a few days it was accepted on Futura. Now, the date of appearance on the latest section, isn’t the date of acceptance in the publication anymore, but the date the story was published on Medium by its writer. This mechanism goes toward publishing fresh and original content on publications, rather than making then repositories of already published stories.

Futura Magazine Story Submission Guidelines
Length, content, submission process, etc. We give you all…
Reinstantiated
image source
The Beginning
Painful.
The first thought that shot through his head. Or was it the last thought? What happened? He was scared, irritated, something he has not felt in a very long time. Yet he began to feel better, with each passing second, soon he felt strong enough to open his eyes. He could not make out where he was, it looked like he was lying in a friendly casket, if such thing exists, but he did not recognize the material, it looked white and somehow glasslike, but felt like warm soft skin. His other senses also started to message his brain, he could hear people talking, but something seemed off with their voices. He also had some funny smell in his nose, kind of sweet and sugary. Maybe he was imagining it.
Where was he?
He tried to remember, but his mind was blank. He should have some memories, but he had nothing, only this voice in his head narrating his thoughts. Was he dead?
“Don’t be scared, everything went perfectly fine. Some initial memory loss is perfectly normal, your brain functions could be rebooted completely, you will be up in no time”, a soft yet extremely clear voice told him.
The casket got opened up, now it looked more like one of those CT scan machines, just way slimer and less claustrophobic. He felt cheered up, after all, he got some warmth back into his body, and he wanted to turn his head to see the person talking to him. It was an attractive young doctor, at least this was what he assumed, given the person being dressed in a white lab coat, hair bound to a pony-tail, tender brown eyes behind slick square glasses. She smiled.
“Very good, bioconciliation seems to have adapted to your brains transduction pattern quickly, but do not worry if some things feel a bit off, we will have a full functionality calibration later”
It took him a second to take the words in. Bioconciliation? Transduction pattern? Calibration? He was confused, but he took a deep breath and tried to sit up, just to be upright when talking to her. She was actually very pretty, young healthy body and symmetric face; this thought popped into his head, as she was helping him sitting up, reminding him vaguely of his daughter. He had a daughter, his memory seems to be catching on slowly, and she was about to finish med school. He remembered holding her in his arms for the first time, that little angel, a feeling so deep that he would have never found the right words to describe it, yet wishes nothing more than to stop time in this perfect moment. Memories about her growing up flashed back into his mind, that tiny apartment he had together with his wife, those freshly married couples had to compromise on when suddenly becoming parents. His wife, the never-resting genius, hurrying from conference to conference to make big important decisions, yet never missing a chance to spend with her family, if circumstances allowed, which was decreasingly often. A sudden and bitter realization hit him, that he had to let her go, once her too short time came. Memories he now wished would have better stayed forgotten, yet they also came back mercilessly. He always gets tears in his eyes thinking about her passing, yet also still smiling remembering about her, those deep feelings for one person really only come along once in a lifetime, he thought, if there’s one thing he’d learned for sure in more than sixty years on this planet. Wanting to clear his eyes with the back of his hand, he stopped mid-movement in astonishment.
“These are not my hands”, he thought. A bizarre feeling.
Of course these are his hands, he can feel them and move them, they just looked different. He held them up in front of his face to get a better look, suddenly realizing the huge mirror next to his bedside. What came next made him feel dizzy again, wondering if his brain is playing tricks on him. He did not see himself in the mirror, at least not how he remembered himself. Blue eyes, brown hair, kind of biggish nose, no scars and wrinkles, this could not be a mirror… it is picturing him how he looked thirty years ago, when he was in his prime. But how is this possible?
“I have determined that your health parameters according to your genetic and epigenetic configuration are the most favorable at this age, so I hope you will feel comfortable in this body”, the young doctor explained after seeing him staring frantically at the mirror. “However, if you prefer a totally different avatar, we can upload you without any problems. Usually, we experience that retrosoma exhibit higher stress levels when not being reinstalled first in their familiar body, that is why our protocols got updated to always recreate a healthy version of the person’s previous body if possible. Luckily for you, many of your cells and most of your neuronal structure got well conserved when you died.”
There it was. He died. The pain when he woke up, it must have been the last thing he felt.
“Retrosoma?” He asked for lack of anything else to say. “That’s what you call people like me?” “Yes”, the young doctor replied, “I am sorry we only came around to you now, but our capacities are limited and it is not a high priority, to be very honest. In fact, I am doing this mostly with my free time. Some say I should get a better hobby, but I like it” She did have remarkably symmetrical teeth when she smiled.
“Wait a second, you are reviving people as a hobby?”, he could not help himself blasting out.
“Well, others might call it a hobby, but for me it is like a mission. I like giving people second chances, and I find it arrogant that people feel so privileged now with their immortality that they forgot all the people that did not have this kind of luxury. It makes me sick”, her tone was slightly rising, one could clearly tell that she was very passionate about it.
“I am sorry, I did not mean to insult you. Can you please explain a bit more, like what year is it now? And what is going on with this whole reviving people thing? And first of all, what is your name?” he asked apologetically, hoping to get some structure into the absurdity of this situation, some part of him still wondering if this is all an elaborate prank of some sort or a very realistic dream.
The doctor immediately turned to her kind voice again; “Ah don’t you worry love, there is no such thing as insulting me. For that, I would have to be a real person, apparently” Some mild frustration showing on her face, and when she continued he could have sworn to hear a sad undertone. “My production number is HLHCM1.3v, but I find it easier with patients if they just call me Adoria, it’s ancient Latin and translates roughly to glory of war. Originally the artificial intelligence constituting me was developed for military aid operations, but since the 70’s more and more of us got outsourced to mobile health care units in the private sector and public hospitals. I have been redistributed to work here at Habeas Corpus Hospital to take care of body switches and well, the occasional retrosoma.”
She looked at him with warm eyes.
“Although to be honest, retrosoma business is dying out pretty quickly, now that all insured cryofrozen rich people have been re-instantiated and nobody seems to care about the rest where either information got lost or no family pushes for re-instantiation. Also, the further you go back in time, the more troubles retrosoma have to adapt to their new reality. Many choose to end their existence again for good, saying they had their time and one lifetime really living is worth more than living forever being a stranger in this new world… unfortunately. Anyways, if you’d ask me, I also did not choose to be made, but since I am here now, I might as well make the best of it, right?”
FUTURE IMPERFECT
When I’m bored I get up from my desk, walk over, and look out my bedroom window.
I look out and then down, down at the Earth spinning in orbit below me, like a big blue round polluted gem.
Whenever I do, I think about my great-great grandparents and laugh.
This isn’t the future they wanted.
They tell me that, whenever I visit them in their Post-Century Home. Both of them, 100+ years old and still alive, with the body of a 30 year old and the energy of a 20 year old.
And they hate it.
The worse thing in the world, they tell me, is to live long enough to see everything you thought you were working for turn out to be a complete and utter piece of shit.
Everyday space travel and extrasolar colonies and affordable cloning and retardation of aging. That part of the future they got.
But all of that came with the baggage of strip-mining the rain forest to the size of the old New York Central Park and destroying the ozone layer with un-ending and constant rocket launches and the near genocide of all those third world civilizations to get the body parts and spare genetic material that made affordable cloning and age slowing affordable and widespread for all the advanced nations.
Yeah, that part of The Future they got too.
The holo-buzzer in my room sounds, telling me it’s time for my shift. All that orbiting space debris from the destruction of Luna isn’t going to pick itself up, y’know?
I start to get ready, stop, look back out and down, down at a planet begging to be put out of her misery.
Laughing, I walk out of my pressure sealed room thinking of my great-great grandparents.
This isn’t the future they wanted.
- End -

FUTURE IMPERFECT
When I’m bored I get up from my desk, walk over, and look out my bedroom window.
Spray
A Survivor’s Guide to the Future of Seattle (Chapter 1)
A typical day in Seattle is Franky waking up and unscrewing the cap to his nasal spray. He had long since given up the stressful habit of wondering how his day would go. This was his favourite spray, imported from Denmark, that leaves virtually no nano-skeletons behind . . . organic technology; decomposing synapse closers to re-circuit your brain for pleasure- 99% pure. The pleasure, of course, was synthetic… or perhaps it would be better to say synthesized. It was real enough though. He liked the Denmark Nurginfijn brand so much for its sleek black appearance… no gaudy flashing led logo, bioluminescent sparkles, 3D glitter-clouds or other garish decorations. Ever since billboards had been outlawed the advertising companies had to get more creative and the results were sickening. The Nurginifijn, when snorted had the scent of whatever smell you chose- accessing your Facebook Memory Archives for your 5-star rated memories.
This smell re-production feature is partially why Nurginfijn brand is so hard to come by; smell-junkies. There were too many bad stories of people re-smelling their dead-mother’s sweater, or a childhood home lost during a re-allocation… just lost in the loop. They were hooked more on the pap of nostalgia than the heroin-like nano-technology; or so they may have thought. Of course, the two were inseparable. To get addicted to a heroin-like experience these days one only needed to want to remember how it used to be. There were even memories you could buy from people that re-produced analog heroin use.
People getting lost in these smell-habits wasn’t what upset the public-at-large though. No one really cared about junkies except to make sure they weren’t bothering anyone by asking for change or jumping in front of cars. Spray couldn’t be bought for twenty bucks on the corner. The big brands were sold exclusively at Sharper Image. The bums still stuck to the tar and the rock. The street kids were into much stranger drugs these days. There was an endless supply of dumpstered research chemicals aimed at mood-alteration in subtle and specific ways. Snort a line of this and feel like you did the first time you accomplished what you thought you never would have been able to or perhaps you smoke a drop of that and experience the feeling of a penny dropping through a hole in your pocket but you don’t realize what it is and this happens over and over again for hours never realizing what happened.
What the bad publicity was were the connections between the re-pros and rapes. The overstressed smell-junkies saw those Seattle brunettes and had dreams of some mythical vagina up there that always would seem like something more than human. These people thought they could re-live some level of bliss over and over again even if it was forced. It was more common than anyone realized- but rape always has been. Only one media storm was needed to brandish the smell-repros the weekly demon. They never made them illegal. There was too much memory research riding on the technology but sales to the general public decreased. The public was appeased by brands refusing to carry the product and re-pro traffic on the streets increased as did the crimes.
Franky pressed the button on his spray and horked it up as he always did: with relief feeling the surgical, mechanical precision of it all. He pictured all the millions of microscopic machines travelling up his snout like a cloud of sperm to lodge their little claws into his brain in-between the synapses. They would feed like little eels on his neural transmissions and having converted them into a more pleasant experience shit them out to the other side. He sat down on the pavement outside his loft against the brick and swam back in his mind while his eyes twittered. The smell of his parents cedar closet echoing through his head with the smell of them coming through and the feeling of their wool clothing pressing against his face as a young child and in a burst let out a laugh. Franky remembered Robbie. Robbie is his housemate. He’s a good guy. Robbie had left his Face account open on one of the screens in his room the night before so Franky had gotten in and set Robbie’s favourite smell to the pile of fetid meat and puke he encountered one night a-dumster-divin’. That gave him a good hows-your-mother. I found it quite funny myself when I heard about it. It was one of the many ways someone with access to your accounts could touch a nerve.
Franky pushed himself up off the wall and walked next-door to the 24-hours club and ordered a triple King’s County bourbon and a beer, a margarita, soda water with bitters and a brandy flip. He entered the whiskey and beer into the robot bartender L.I.S.A., Liquid Intoxicant Serving Assistant, but Franky asked Jon, the Mechanical Supervisor, to make the margarita for him, put some bitters into some soda water and the flip. Franky always asked Jon for this. Franky a once alcoholic when we were younger now fancied elegantly made drinks if they were anything other than straight liquor, which he did still drink often. Jon stocked the bar with limes, half and half and some other small ingredients now that he had met Franky. Jon and Franky had become buddies recently. Franky had that effect on people when he was high. If they didn’t recognize the over-exuberance of a spray-out they found him irresistibly charming. Jon recognized it, Franky was not shy about his habit, and he liked him anyway. Franky had no need to be, shy that is. No one did. It was all perfectly acceptable to the masses so long as you didn’t look or smell or act offensive or even worse yet inconvenience them.
The Mechanical Supervisor had no business mixing drinks. He only serviced L.I.S.A., wiped the bar down and kicked out the unruly. When Franky came in though Jon would take the little laminated card he had stashed by the rags out that had the recipes written on it and opened the back of L.I.S.A. to manually dispense the ingredients for Franky and shake ‘em up in the tins Franky had bought for the bar when he first made Jon’s acquaintance shortly after moving to the neighborhood. There was just something about the craft of it. It was culture. Bartending had become a very boring job at the bars that could afford the new machines and Jon relished in the activity. The position was akin to a toll-booth worker’s job now when once it was more along the lines of a tailor or an owner of a small bookstore. There were still solid wooden bars to sit at in many barrooms even though the machines held the liquors and dispensed the drinks. They were being phased out though as there was nothing to keep behind them anymore. The barroom without a bar was a lot like an open-office plan. It increased extroversion by eliminating privacy. Who wouldn’t like that?
This array of drinks was a fun breakfast for Franky… a spray, some drinks. He lit his pipe up filled with some hard-won home-grown tobacco, wrapped his scarf around his neck and leaned into the vinyl booth. He was a big fan of the morning-drunk before work. He thought for a moment about even upping his spray dose today although it was against his policy. Click it up and its hard to drop back down. He knew that. We all knew that much. He pulled the sleek black lipstick looking device out his shirt pocket and turned the knob up a click or two. He relished in the instantaneous pleasure and the sneaking delirium that resulted. What was reality anyway except his perception of it?
“Well I guess… I don’t know… I… I…” like waves crashing in on a high tide, the information was too much to handle, he got up rapidly trying to go somewhere, not knowing where, his pulse hammering so loud he could hear the blood rushing through his ears, his head hurting with a pressure over his eyes taking his vision, and surely enough he lost his balance just to fall back onto the casket-like bed.
“You will have to stay here a little bit longer, see bioconciliations starts from you cerebellum down your spine, reconnecting your nerves with your muscles, and it takes time to get everything working properly. You should be done in about 15 minutes, then I will remove the nanobots from your bloodstream and you will be as good as new. However, I would recommend you to stay a bit longer and get some nutritional broth, as your body is still mostly biological and will need it to stay healthy.”
He could not care less about staying healthy at the moment, however he also could not help himself inquiring: “Mostly biological? What do you mean by mostly? And what the hell are you then?”
“Well, I do not think it was considered very polite, even at your time, to ask people what they are, not who they are” she replied, and there it was again, this passion in her voice. “Why don’t you lean back into the regenerator, close your eyes and let me show you, this will be way more efficient at communicating all the necessary information, the poor data rate of verbal communication was always very disturbing, if you’d ask me, personally”
She put her hand gently on his forehead, and he felt that something was off with her skin, although he could not point the finger at it, nevertheless it was not unpleasant. So he closed his eyes, when suddenly he could see again, although it was not the room or the doctor he was seeing, it was what resembled the most to a smartphone interface, which little icons and symbols spread over it. “You have to allow conjunction in order for me to transfer data onto your brain cloud, just focus and think about pressing the icon with a big “Cjn” written on it, alternatively you can press you thumb and index finger together to enable it”
Still with his eyes closed, he thought about directing his vision to the “Cjn” icon, and by pressing his fingers together, a message popped up reading “Are you sure you want to enable conjunction with [HLHCM1.3v 2068302]?”, he focused on the word “Yes” and pressed again, slowly getting used to navigating this interphase by just thinking.
Suddenly, he felt a tickling sensation behind his eyes, but what happened next was even weirder, he felt kind of pulled into … himself? This pull lasted only a second, but now everything around him suddenly changed form. In fact it looked more likely that he himself was placed midair into what seemed like a ordinary, but nevertheless impressive human city. Maybe Bangkok? Tokyo? He looked to the side and found Adoria, also midair, giving him a confident smile and reaching for his hand.
“I put us in the year -25 C.E., how we call it nowadays more politically correct. I think for you, it would still have been called A.D 2020… anyways, this is how the world looked back then. You can see the skyscrapers and the streets crowded with people going about their individual lives, with their cars and shopping malls, spending physical money in restaurants… always makes me a bit nostalgic, if you know what I mean. Simpler times. I’m gonna fast forward the next 25 years, until the big conversion and the begin of the common era.”
And with a snap of her finger, he could see the city changing, some buildings getting torn down while others are growing, the foggy air pollution gradually vanishing from the streets, more green areas surfacing here and there out of the grayish or glasslike background, traffic getting thinner and thinner. Overall, it looked like to improve to a greener, more sustainable habitat to host a species concerned about protecting not only itself, but also it’s surrounding. This thought made him happy, since he was always very big on protecting the earth and all too often despairing about the bad long-time consequences of profit-driven and short-sighted behavior within his peers.
Gradually, the shapes and forms in front of him started to get more unfamiliar, almost like a chameleon adapts to its environment, the city seemed to melt together with buildings still being distinct from each other, but somehow connected. He also noticed that almost every open space he sees, roofs on buildings and lighting on the streets appear to be covered by the same layer of a material he did not know. He was fascinated by how much humankind seemed to have progressed in only 25 years, when suddenly the city vanished in front of his eyes.
“In order to understand what you will see next, let me give you some short explanations on what has happened until this point.” Adoria chimed in, with her gentle calm voice.
“As you could clearly see, the environmental laws set forth in 2020 and later pushed the global economy to innovate into more sustainable ways for humans to inhabit their earth, especially regarding air and water pollution, recycling and energy generation. There is one thing I will never understand about you humans… why would you wait until you see people suffer so horribly before implementing a different course of action? At the time the data and predictive models were already accurate enough to say with certainty that this would happen… this behavior of waiting to see seems very inefficient at best, and detrimental to your existence at worst… I always wondered if there are still parts of your biology that have not been investigated enough, as far as I can tell your visual cortex should be far away from your ventromedial prefrontal cortex, so the likelihood of conserved hierarchical neural wiring appears to be insufficient to be causal for that behavior. Then again, many humans still only believe what they can see… even at our times, who would have imagined?”
“Well, I guess part of being human means being flawed, constantly trying to better ourselves while not always succeeding”, he answered, remembering his own struggles being young and flawed and hopeful.
“But if your heart is in the right place, that’s what makes all the difference”, he concluded.
“Coronal positioning is quite invariant in humans though, I do not see how this would have any effect on your behavior. Furthermore, I do not understand how having an obvious software bug makes you more human, if anything, it makes you less functional which should decrease your chances of survival, considering evolutionary selection parameters.” Adoria challenged his answer methodically.
“And yet, we are here, and we all are flawed. What is more likely, that us being flawed was an evolutionary oversight or that our “software bugs” might indeed come with benefits although intangible? I’ll let you do the math.” he replied, more defensively than seriously.
Suddenly, Adoria held in for a second, which stretched into an awkward moment of silence. Before she readdressed him, she put on a bright happy smile. “It appears you are quite right, all predictive models I tried estimated a high probability of this particular human software bug to be non-randomly distributed, suggesting indeed indirect beneficial attributes. I have to say, your calculating capacities are quite extraordinary for a retrosoma, I had to rent 5 ZettaByte of memory now to run my calculations reasonably fast… anyway, it was intriguing enough of a statement to compute, so I don’t mind the credits.”
He noticed that her mood seemed to have risen after this conclusion. Is she really not human?
“Well, it is always a pleasure to learn something new and unexpected, is that not how we progress, after all?” she laughed wholeheartedly, before she continued showing him how the world has changed.
This short story is part of a bigger story universe.
If you liked it, feel free to recommend it below or share it.
Reinstantiated

The Beginning
Painful.
His eyes fixed on the cameras in the corners of the room blinking and swaying back and forth, back and forth. The cameras rotated all for show and for all to see. They were much larger than the technology of the day necessitated. They were not plugged in. They mimicked the cameras lining the streets and perched at every intersection. They instilled the feeling of someone reading over your shoulder at all times; listening to everything you said while awake or while asleep. The majority of customers did not know the bar-cameras were not hooked up to anything. The most probably didn’t even notice them. “Do you notice every piece of gum on the pavement?” Franky often asked me this question. I do of course. But that went counter to his point. He said many things about me did, but I wasn’t “your typical American”. The cameras on the streets too were not noticed and it was questionable if they were on or not. Many certainly were. They were always recording. Many more were fakes. But which were which? It was hard to say. There was a camera on every street-corner. It was conceivable that all of them were on. Storage space was not an issue either physically or monetarily. Thousands of high-definition cameras per town, millions in cities; more cameras than people, they could all be stored in a single snow-globe; These globes held an inconceivable amount of data. Consumer-grade snow-globes were available. You could even shake ‘em up. People’s whole lives could be recorded in a single globe… smell-memories, dreams, visions and of course your friends’ too.
Franky let all the alcohol flow into his system with a little hard-won tobacco and blissed out for a while just watching the fake cameras sway back and forth, a symbol of freedom from crime, safety and pleasure, old glory flapping in the breeze like a rotten carcass.
He took his kleerawak pill, sobered up instantly . . . all except for the spray. He would debate whether to turn that back down or not as he walked to work.
_____________________________
2014

Spray
A Survivor’s Guide to the Future of Seattle (Chapter 1)
Agent of Destiny
The Last Knight considers a serious career change

With a throat made dry from weeks crossing the Final Wastes, named because no one who had ever made the trip had returned, the Last Knight came upon the Nameless Oasis, named because, well, no one survived to give it one.
He grasped the Elixir of Heavenly Summoning and after snatching a quick drink from the small pool in the center of the oasis he sat down and prepared to cast the final spells of summoning.
Only after he had taken a long, slow, thirst-quenching drink did it occur to him maybe he shouldn’t have. The spell may have required him to be on the verge of death for it to work. He decided he should check his Heroic Handbook to see if there was anything mentioned. Turning to the hand-written index, he found several entries on Deprivation, Suffering and Heroic Sacrifice.
The entries didn’t quite contradict themselves but the Monks of the Crazed Schism didn’t seem to be the most stable of fellows so he wasn’t sure if the notes for Heroic Sacrifice which said “a hero who is willing to make a Heroic Sacrifice could be in nearly any physical state because at the end of the Sacrifice he will likely die.”
These words didn’t comfort him. Checking the Deprivation entry, it said, “the hero will likely have suffered from a lack of food, water, may have had massive wounds that have barely healed. If he is expected to give his life in the next day or so, spells that require Deprivation don’t require he be suffering from all three to activate them.” Okay, so a drink wouldn’t put him out of the running.
With the sun going down, he decided he would go ahead and make a fire from the scrub and leaves he found in the oasis and assume that Suffering wouldn’t include he spend one more night in the desert cold and miserable but he just wasn’t up for having his teeth chatter for one more night. Finding a collection of figs, freshly fallen, he ate them and settled down for his last night of sleep.
Come dawn, his stomach rumbled and he found himself less than comfortable. A quick duck into the bushes settled that particular issue and he drew the circle necessary for the spell. He couldn’t get the idea that he should have checked the entry for Suffering to be sure.
He thought about his Bag of Holding Everything and his stomach almost heaved. He took off the bag on his hip and reached into it all the way to his armpit and felt around for the final ingredients to cast the spell. The smell exuded by the bag was only one of the many reasons he didn’t open it any more than he had to.
Choking past the gag reflex, he remembered he would have to hurry. The sun was coming up and needed the spell to be activated before it reached it’s zenith.
He took out the jeweled eyes of the Medusa he killed over a year ago. He thought about the idea he could have had a king’s ransom if he had traded them to one of the three evil wizards who had captured him on his way here. He remembered how two of the wizards had been turned to stone because he hadn’t been diligent in warning them that he hadn’t removed the eyes from the Medusa’s head first.
The last wizard was a bit smarter than the others and the knight pushed him into the bag of holding and closed it up. He hadn’t looked in it since then and dragged the third wizard up onto the sand. His asphyxiated face had a look of surprise frozen onto it.
Feeling around, he found the Helm of Astounding Brilliance. He remembered to put on the Shades of Brilliance Reduction and placed it on the sand in the center of circle, next to the blazing Medusa’s eyes.
The Shades of Brilliance Reduction were a tacky set of red and green goggles with ornate sigils woven into the leather and marked onto the glass. It took him nearly a year to gather the ingredients and another year playing fetch, gathering mystical ingredients and other bric-a-brac for the good wizard who agreed to make them for him. Two years of his life he would never get back.
Placing the Helm, he thinks of the Sinister God of Darkness, who learning there was an object that could dispel any darkness, even magical darkness gathered up every Helm of Astounding Brilliance in the land, (there were four) and stored them in the dungeon of his mountain fastness.
The Dark Lord of Shadow protected the helms with a variety of kobolds, trolls, dragons and slime molds. The knight considered his favorite holy armor, given to him by the Paleo-Pope, and remembered it was destroyed in the darkness-be-damned dungeon by a slime-mold.
Stepping out of the circle, he reached back into the bag and pulled out a beautifully crafted suit of armor. Made of mithril by dwarven masters, covered in protective runes by elven mystics, blessed by the Paleo-Pope himself, it was considered the most indestructible armor in the world.
So, technically, it wasn’t destroyed.
It was rendered unwearable by the god-awful stink that stayed with the armor even after it had been cleaned and blessed. He tried wearing it but no one would help him on his quests after that.
He dragged that armor out onto the sand and put it as far away as he could and prayed the wind would shift away from him. Trudging back to the Bag of Holding Everything, he pulled out another small bag of sword shards and a hilt.
Supposedly unbreakable, it broke in the battle with the Lord of the Underdark and this quest was meant to repair it in time to engage in the final battle against an all encroaching evil that only he could stop.
It was his destiny.
Checking the Handbook of the Monks of the Crazed Schism, he found the spell and recited the litany as the sun reached its peak.
The wind shifted and the smell of his invulnerable armor whose invulnerability now included the stench of a slime mold distracted him at the final moment of the casting.
The sky darkened almost until it was like night and an Angel of Unsurpassed Beauty appeared drawing the shards of the Unbreakable Sword into her arms. She reforged the blade before his eyes. With a large forge. Taking a few hours before she was done.
He needed to chant the entire time.
When she was finished, she held the blade out to him.
“Are you the Champion for whom this Blade was forged? Are you he that was Destined to slay the Lord of the Underdark who had more than a third of the world under his heel, purge the world of the three most evil Lich Lords, creating undead legions everywhere, Free the Helms of Astounding Brilliance to once again wage war on the Undead, and enabled Brinmath the Amazing, Wizard Extrarordinaire, to return to making the world a better place with his renewed youth?”
So that’s what all that stuff was for…
“Yes. I think.”
“You think?” The Angel’s voice sounded none too pleased with the equivocation. Heroes are supposed to be sure of themselves.
“You see,” I began, “I think I have already done enough to make the world a better place and I think someone else was destined to do the cleanup of this world-saving thing. No disrespect, intended but I think I would like to go home and just put my feet up.”
The Angel stood there looking menacing. I don’t think this was the answer she was expecting.
“What would you do when Evil came to your door and demanded your surrender? How would you protect your neighbors, friends and family?”
“I suppose I could offer Evil some tea?”
“Tea. Evil does not drink tea. Evil drinks coffee.”
“Really? How uncivilized.”
“Look, I haven’t got all day. Are you going to take up your burden and save the world or aren’t you?” I think she was starting to lose patience.
“I don’t see how this has anything to do with me. I didn’t ask for this. I didn’t say ‘hey, I want to be predestined, before I get to have a girlfriend, before I make any lifelong friends, before I even got to shave or note my first pube, to go out fight evil, pray to an uncaring god, slay evil wizards and save my world from complete turmoil before my thirtieth birthday.’”
She stood there for a moment and pondered this. Then she spoke: “You are correct. You did not get any choice in this and you have already done great things in the name of your god. I lay this final burden upon you. Go forth and find or train your successor. You will have five years before Evil becomes so powerful you cannot stop it, no matter what you do. Give this sword to whomever you deem most worthy and your work is done.”
“So we’re kicking the can down the road a bit, eh?”
“It’s the best I can do.”
“Deal. I don’t have to even use it, right?”
“No. But the person you train must be able to touch it. If they are not worthy they will die.”
“Okay, I guess that is as good as it’s going to get. One last favor. Can you at least tell me where this worthy might be found? You owe me at least that much.”
“In Easteros. In the most eastern province.”
“But that is on the other side of the world. It will take me at least two years to walk there.”
“I suggest you get a horse. And you will need the invulnerable armor over there. Artifacts like these don’t grow on trees.”
“Did you smell that armor? It is going nowhere smelling like that.”
“There is a wizard in Easteros who can help with that. Good luck.”
“One more question before you go.” She hands me the sword and I feel the power of the renewed blade, a thousand times more dangerous than it was before. “Where is the most terrible of Evils going to spring into being in five years?”
The sky begins to clear and the setting sun can be seen behind the Angel as she is leaving.
“Easteros,” she whispered before fading away.
I drag the stinking armor, the Helm of Astounding Brilliance, the eyes of the Medusa, and the Sword back into the Bag of Holding Everything.
I bury the Lich Lord Wizard King in the desert and begin my long walk East with the uncomfortable feeling that I had just been conned by my God.
The Moment of Truth © Thaddeus Howze 2014, All Rights Reserved

ABOUT THE AUTHOR:
Thaddeus Howze is a California-based technologist and author who has worked with computer technology since the 1980's doing graphic design, computer science, programming, network administration and IT leadership.
His non-fiction work has appeared in numerous magazines: Black Enterprise, the Good Men Project, Examiner.com, and Astronaut.com. He maintains a diverse collection of non-fiction at his blog, A Matter of Scale. He is a contributor at The Enemy, a nonfiction literary publication out of Los Angeles.
He is a contributor to the Scifi.Stackexchange.com with over a thousand articles in a three year period. He is now an author and contributor at Scifiideas.com. His science fiction and fantasy has appeared in blogs such as Medium.com, the Magill Review, ScifiIdeas.com, and the Au Courant Press Journal. He has a wide collection of his work on his website, Hub City Blues. His recently published works can be found here.
His speculative fiction has appeared in numerous anthologies: Awesome Allshorts: Last Days and Lost Ways (Australia, 2014), The Future is Short (2014), Visions of Leaving Earth (2014), Mothership: Tales of Afrofuturism and Beyond (2014), Genesis Science Fiction (2013), Scraps (2012), and Possibilities (2012).
He has two books: a collection called Hayward’s Reach (2011) and an e-book novella called Broken Glass (2013).
If you have enjoyed this publication or any of the other writing he does, consider becoming a Patron on Patronage.com.
For what you spend on your daily cup of coffee: once per month, you can assist him in creating new stories, new graphics, new articles and new novels. Creating the new takes a little support: http://patreon.com/ebonstorm

The Moment of Truth
The Last Knight discovers he may not want to be an Agent of Destiny…
Image from “The Girl With The Mechanical Maiden”. All Rights Reserved.
NANNY
A fast fiction story on the memories we take with us from childhood
I remember Nanny.
She was a 4th Generation Child-Watcher series.
She was made of metal of course. Every robot up until the 6th Generation was.
All slick silver, black paint, and red LCD eyes. Not a thing of beauty by any stretch.
Nothing at all like the smooth, space age plastic bots of today.
Hell, she wasn’t even human shape. Wheels instead of legs and a torso shaped like a box.
But her arms and hands, those were human shaped. All slick silver metal, but human shaped.
Those were the hands that cleaned me up after I would run in from a softball game or after I got into a fight.
The hands that tucked me in at night, whenever my parents were too busy.
They were always too busy…
But Nanny…
She taught me how to walk, how to read, how to use the toilet.
And she would sing to me at night.
Sing to me in low beeps and quiet hums. The secret language of the robots.
A year after my parents died, I honestly forgot what they looked and sounded like.
But I remember Nanny.
- end -

NANNY
A fast fiction story on the memories we take with us from childhood
The Man Who Blinked
photo by Leah Welty-Rieger
Matt stood at the corner of Wacker and Wells, waiting for the light to turn so he could continue on his way to the Merchandise Mart El stop. He pulled his wool cap off and scratched his head, looking around. It was December and the Earth’s tilt had left Chicago cold and dark for his evening commute.
Matt wasn’t a fan of the cold, but the view at this hour was spectacular. The Chicago River shone bright with the reflections of the massive buildings that lined its shores. The avant-garde design of Marina City to the East mocked the squat, utilitarian building that housed the Chicago Sun-Times to the West. The newest addition, the Trump Tower, filled in the sky line silver and shining. And straight ahead was the massive commercial center of Chicago, the Merchandise Mart.
Thousands of windows, lit up as the workers within pressed on towards quitting time, were reflected in the black of the river like stars on a clear night. Matt could have picked up the train at the Washington and Wells stop right outside his work, but instead he chose to walk the extra half mile to pick up the train at the river. He did this every night in the winter and had yet to regret his choice.
Matt blinked against the icy northern breeze, the dry air causing his eyes to water. With each blink, a light went out in the Merchandise Mart.
Matt chuckled to himself. “That was awesome,” he said to no one in particular. The light turned and he crossed the street onto the Wells Bridge, the passing cars causing it to rumble under his feet. As he crossed over to the North bank, he noticed a twinkling out of the corner of his eye, like fireflies dancing just out of sight. He paused briefly and stood at the rail, gazing out over the water, trying to figure out what had been tickling his peripheral. He blinked and — wait. Had another light gone out just then?
He stared at the Sun-Times building, deliberately forcing himself not to blink. There were definitely plenty of lights out in the building, but that’s hardly anything unusual. Given the state the Sun-Times was in — and the newspaper industry in general — Matt was surprised there weren’t more empty offices. Still, he resisted blinking. After almost a minute, though, his eyes began to water and then sting. His lids fluttered against his efforts to force them open. After a few more seconds, evolution’s effort to protect one of man’s most valuable assets took over and he blinked. And when his eyes reopened, the window he’d been staring at was dark.
Matt’s stomach tightened and he grabbed the railing of the bridge to steady himself. He looked at the Merchandise Mart and blinked several times in rapid succession. And when he had finished, a block of eight windows in the center of the building was now unlit.
Matt haled a cab and gave his address, not up for standing on a crowded train after his adventure on the bridge. He kept his eyes closed for the whole ride home, afraid of what might happen if he peeked.
That night Matt fell asleep in darkness, his one bedroom apartment emptied of light by an evening of blinking.
. . .
The next morning Matt went to a doctor. Examination was tricky. Each light the doctor pulled out to examine his retina was rendered useless with an accidental blink of the eyes. But even had it gone off without a hitch, nothing would have been found. There was nothing wrong with Matt’s retinas. Out of his depth and out of ideas, the doctor called Northwestern Hospital for an MRI and a consultation.
It’s a tricky business, entering a hospital when your eyes serve as a light switch. The last thing Matt wanted to do was leave a building full of sick in the dark. The doctor had them send an ambulance (he may not have been a hundred percent forthright with the reason the ambulance was needed; explaining a light-extinguishing blink is not something to attempt over the phone).
Matt’s eyes were carefully taped open with white medical tape. They were a film strip away from re-enacting A Clockwork Orange when Matt was strapped to a gurney and rolled into the ambulance, his eyes peeled open, an attendant feeding a steady diet of saline into Matt’s eyes. The man’s hand lurched as he hurried to keep up with gurney, dribbling water on Matt’s cheek with each movement. The man didn’t notice, though. He just stared into Matt’s dark, brown eyes.
. . .
The MRI was clean; the doctors were baffled. It took less than a week for the scientific community to gather at Matt’s bedside. Who could resist seeing “The Man Who Blinked”? Matt stared up at them as they hovered over his bed, their faces illuminated by the flickering light of the candles that lined his room. Each wore the same expression: intent eyes, pursed lips, furrowed brow.
Taking turns, the doctors produced a light source of their choosing. His eyes now free to close as the room had been cleared of all potential blinking victims, Matt snuffed out each source as it was presented. Fluorescent or incandescent, sodium or argon; they all went out. But, and this revelation came as no surprise to Matt but set his gaggle of doctors all a twitter, only one light would go out at a time. And interestingly enough, a wink wouldn’t do the trick. The closing of a single eye had no effect other than to lend Matt a rakish charm.
But the brightest minds in the medical and scientific community had nothing to offer but hypotheses — certainly not solutions. And after months in his solitary hospital chambers, his only companion the dancing shadows on the wall, the doctors all surrendered. And exactly thirty days after that, the Northwestern attending in change of his case entered Matt’s room, clipboard clutched to his chest.
“Matt,” he said with a sigh. They had long ago established a first name basis. “I’m afraid we haven’t gotten any closer to figuring out what’s wrong with you. We’re getting to the point where the best we can hope for is to control the situation.”
“Alright Dr. Brinkley, that’ll be enough,” said a man in a dark blue suit as he bustled into Matt’s room, brushing aside Dr. Brinkley. The man had a long, thin face and delicate features that matched his slight frame. “Matt, I’m Dr. James Hoffman with the Department of Health and Human Services. How are you doing?”
“Um,” Matt said. “Okay, I guess.”
“That’s great. Matt, I’m afraid we’re in a bit of a pickle here. You see, you have a very unique condition.”
“Yeah.”
“A unique and potentially dangerous condition, wouldn’t you agree?”
Well,” Matt said, twisting in his hospital bed as he struggled to sit up. “I wouldn’t say — “
“Yes, well, we would say. It’s our responsibility to the American people to ensure that we do what’s best for all of our citizens. I’m sure you’ve heard of the plague?”
“Well, yeah.”
“There are over thirty cases of the plague in America right now. Did you know that?”
“No.”
The man smirked. “Oh course you didn’t. It’s our job to make sure that you don’t know it and that you don’t get the plague. Containment is the key. Do you see where I’m going with this, Matt?”
“I think I do. I don’t have the plague,” Matt said, his voice rising slightly.
“No, you don’t. If you did, we’d know what to do. In fact, we have no idea what you have. And we don’t know if you represent a hazard to the public health.”
“Now wait a minute,” Matt said, his response now a full shout. “What’s your fucking point.”
“My fucking point, as you put it, is this: men,” he said, calling over his shoulder. At his summons, two fully armed soldiers entered the room and stood at either side of the door. “These men will be escorting you out of here to a place where you’ll be safe. And where we’ll all be safe.”
Matt slumped back into his bed and closed his eyes. “Jesus Christ,” he groaned.
Three months later, the door to Matt’s “recovery suite” opened and a man walked in wearing military fatigues decorated with an array of stars and bars. In three months, Matt’s life had ceased to be what he once knew. The rumors had propagated back to him that he’d been declared dead, whereabouts unknown. Actual news was lost to him, though, as he had been confined to a small apartment since the Department of Health and Human Services had declared him a hazard to mankind.
Hanging in each corner of every room of his apartment was a kerosene lamp and Matt spent most hours of the day reading by their dim glow. He was doing just that when the military man entered.
“Matthew,” he said, walking into Matt’s apartment without waiting for an invitation and taking a seat in a tall, wooden chair across from the leather reading chair in which Matt sat. “I’m General Casey of the United States Armed Forces. It’s nice to finally meet you after all this time.”
“I’m sorry?” Matt said, closing his book and setting it in his lap
“You’ve been the talk of the military since we heard about your little condition. I would have been here sooner if it wasn’t for that pencil-dick doctor of yours.” The general nodded back towards the doorway where Doctor Hoffman, the man responsible for Matt’s confinement, stood half-in-half-out of the room, hugging the door jam. Matt smiled in spite of himself.
“Do you know how valuable you could be to an operation like ours?” the general continued, leaning in towards Matt who instinctively eased back away from his gaze. The general had a weathered, leathery face that was in sharp contrast to the bright, blue eyes that now held Matt’s; a look of casual command that caused both Matt’s mouth and sphincter to tighten. Matt just stared back at him, waiting for the general to continue. “You can steal the light, Matt. That’s something we can’t do. The military can’t just throw the enemy into darkness, Matt. Not yet. Not without you.”
“Me?”
“You. Have you ever read a comic book, Matt?”
“Sure.”
“Do you want to become a real-life super hero Matt? Do you want to become ‘The Blinking Man’? Or do you want to be considered some sort of disease-ridden freak by this government-run asshole factory?”
“‘The Blinking Man’,” Matt said, staring over the general’s shoulder at the glow of the kerosene lantern, rolling the name over in his mind. Suddenly his eyes snapped back to the generals. “Would I get to wear a costume?”

The Man Who Blinked
Matt stood at the corner of Wacker and Wells, waiting for the light to turn so he could continue on his way to the…
Art by: Setor Fiadzigbey
Upgrade
Set and Davro rush to fulfill one of their world’s first manhood rites.
Set chased after his little brother Davro catching him as he experimented with his new implant.
As he grabbed his hand, he heard his younger brother’s implant speaking aloud. His cochelar implant had not been installed so the occular scanner was forced to relay information in its cool, non-human voice…
“— Venrian chicken, a hybrid of Terran and Venri desert fowl known for their ability to survive the harsh Venri summers and its cold dry winters. The Venrian chickens were one of the first domesticated hybrids created by the Maori life-building probes landing here over three centuries ago. Do you want to know more?”
“It’s not a toy, Davro. You can’t just run around scanning everything.”
“I just did. I didn’t know chickens came from Earth?”
Set glared at his brother as he requested a map of the city from the holodrones flying above. Kenboku was a large city and it was easy to get lost here. They had taken the tram from their home district but would have to walk the rest of the way for the last part of Davro’s upgrade. Being connected to the City’s neural network would be one of the first of the Manhood trials Davro would go through before he would journey out into the desert on his Spirit Flight.
Redirected, the local holodrones shared their map of the ever-changing capital and then flew on. “We have to go this way. Now stop scanning people, it’s considered impolite.”
“Yes, brother. But haven’t you ever wanted to scan a person and know everything about them? I couldn’t wait for them to fully activate my implant so I could learn about everything.”
“It won’t replace going to school, if that’s what you’re hoping. We still have to learn everything organically. The NEMI system is an auxiliary brain, it’s meant to help you not replace thinking for you.” Davro looked heartbroken to discover he would still have to go to school. Set smiled remembering when Father had told him the same thing.
“Then why do we bother with having computers in our heads if they don’t make us any smarter?” Set smiled again. He remembered his Father’s response and repeated it as best he could remember.
“Even though our families have lived on Venri for three hundred years, outside of our controlled cities and occasionally even inside of them, there are many dangers we have to contend with.” Davro looked bored and Set stopped to check his map before continuing.
“We don’t put computers into our brains any more because of other Humani who are able to hijack computer systems and take control of people who integrate computers into their neural structures.”
“You can’t hack a brain, can you?”
“You can if you use one of the more advanced Earth interface systems. The EI was one of the most advanced computer interfaces created. Human and computers were inseparable. That technology got all of us to the stars.”
Davro stopped and pulled his brother to a halt. “NEMI, display EI interface system hologram display.”
“Complying. Display complete.” An integrated silver band was shown above the face of their Grandfather who wore one until his untimely death.
“Grandfather had one. Why would he want us wearing these. They are nowhere near as powerful. I know, I asked mine earlier but it refused to explain.”
Set replied. “You are not authorized to know. You haven’t become a man like I have.”
“You’re not a man, you’re only thirteen.”
On Venri, thirteen was considered the end of childhood but Set would not truly be a man until he completed his Spirit Flight. Davro’s correction chafed but was essentially correct.
“Nonetheless, you are still too young to access that information fully. It is possible to hack a brain if you use the EI. Our NEMI are completely separate from your brain. There is some interface with our organics but our bodies are not tied with the NEMI system.
“Grandfather was very old. Using the EI he could regulate his body’s systems, slowing his aging greatly. It made him capable of utilizing his body’s maximum capacity; they were stronger, faster and smarter than we will ever be. All the legends of the First Men and Women of Venri are true. They were superhuman.”
Set grabbed his brother’s hand and the two of them sprinted until they had reached the clinic where the final activation to Davro’s implant would be made. Their sprint through town had allowed them to arrive on time and prevented Davro from asking any more questions. The look in the younger boy’s eyes told him he hadn’t forgotten while they dodged traffic.
“Do you remember how grandfather died?”
“He fell asleep and didn’t wake up.”
“Yes. When the Acanti rebels came, they had using their own technology to take apart some of the First Men and learned how to override the EI.”
Davro knew of the Acanti, a group of Humani Regression Cultists who believed that even though technology had brought us to the stars, our obsession and reliance on it weakened many of the Venri colonists. The Acanti broke with the colony and chose to live in the desert in what they believed was communion with the nature of this harsh world.
“That’s the part I don’t understand. I thought the Acanti didn’t use technology.”
“They didn’t. They bonded with lifeforms out in the desert and developed psychic abilities which allowed them to take over the First Men’s implants and shut them down.”
“Fortunately for us, the First Men had in their way agreed with the Acanti and had begun developing NEMI as a less invasive replacement. Fifty years ago, they had they built NEMI’s central core over there. See it the sphere over the tower? This was to be a replacement for the EI. A computer repository of information without the risk of psychic interference from the local psychic wildlife.”
Set waited to see the light of comprehension in his brother’s eyes, but instead a tear formed.
“What’s wrong, Davro?” Set could see something profound was bothering his brother. Davro hugged Set tightly and looked up at him, tears rolling down his face.
“Without the EI, doesn’t this mean we’ll never go back to the stars?”
Set held his brother tightly and realized Davro was far more intelligent than he gave him credit for. It had taken him three years to realize that very same fact.
Taking Davro’s hand, Set walked him into the clinic. In time and the many applications of the NEMI, Set hoped Davros would forget the lure of the forbidden stars.
Just like he did.
Upgrade © Thaddeus Howze 2015, All Rights Reserved

Thaddeus Howze is a California-based technologist and author who has worked with computer technology since the 1980's doing graphic design, computer science, programming, network administration and IT leadership.
His non-fiction work has appeared in numerous magazines: Black Enterprise, the Good Men Project, Examiner.com, and Astronaut.com. He maintains a diverse collection of non-fiction at his blog, A Matter of Scale. He is a contributor at The Enemy, a nonfiction literary publication out of Los Angeles.
He is a contributor to the Scifi.Stackexchange.com with over a thousand articles in a three year period. He is now an author and contributor at Scifiideas.com. His science fiction and fantasy has appeared in blogs such as Medium.com, the Magill Review, ScifiIdeas.com, and the Au Courant Press Journal. He has a wide collection of his work on his website, Hub City Blues. His recently published works can be found here. He also maintains a wide collection of his writing and editing work on Medium.com.
His speculative fiction has appeared in numerous anthologies: Awesome Allshorts: Last Days and Lost Ways (Australia, 2014), The Future is Short (2014), Visions of Leaving Earth (2014), Mothership: Tales of Afrofuturism and Beyond (2014), Genesis Science Fiction (2013), Scraps (2012), and Possibilities (2012).
He has written two books: a collection called Hayward’s Reach (2011) and an e-book novella called Broken Glass (2013). In 2015 he will be releasing Visiting Hours and A Millennium of Madness, two collections of short stories.
If you have enjoyed this publication or any of the other writing he does, consider becoming a Patron. For what you spend on one cup of coffee per month, you can assist him in creating new stories, new graphics, new articles and new novels. Creating the new takes a little support: http://patreon.com/ebonstorm.


Upgrade
Set and Davro rush to fulfill one of their world’s first manhood rites.
Dei — Part 1
Waking up in a new, strange world
Illustration: Martin Leon Barreto, found in: Fast Company
He woke up in a huge room with many, bright lights pointing at him. His eyes weren’t able to see for a longer moment. But the longer he waited, the better he was able to recognize somebody in front of him. Something white, hovering over him. It looked like a volleyball with arms, he thought.
“Welcome back, Dr. Wallace.”, the thing said and flew away.
As he tried to reach it with his hands, somebody grabbed his arms and pulled them down.
“No, not yet. I have to check the engines in your arms.” It was a smooth, silent voice.
Cumbrously he tried to move his head to the left. Due to the blur on his eyes he only recognized a human being with black hair. Maybe a woman? She wore a white coat like a doctor.
“Who…,”, he tried to speak.
A flickering appeared over his stomach.
“Patient is doing well, but is very old. I have to check his hardware.”
And the flickering disappeared.
“Dr. Wallace, I am Professor Peipei Chen,”, she said and put some drops into his eyes. Within seconds he was able to see clear again.
“Bill…”, she continued, “I initiated a naon-liquid into his eyes to automatically find his optimal vision.”
Suddenly he saw her face. She was young, clean skin, red lips, frameless glasses, a small nose. Again he turned his head and saw his arms. Not his biological arms. They were artificial arms, made of carbon he thought.
“Can you understand me, Dr. Wallace?”, she asked and touched his neck.
He nodded, not willing to look up. What happened to his arms?
“I am glad that I were able to save you. You got some stuff from my predecessor… several years ago.”
“Years?”, he asked. He had no idea about the current year. “Which year do we have?”
“This is the year 2321, Dr. Wallace.”
2321? But the last date he remembered was…? What happened? Is it a nightmare?
“You are here for more than three hundred years. According to your file you have been delivered here after a car accident and Dr. Agarwal tried to save your life through a transfer when he found your body in a cryo-chamber.”
“Accident? Who is Dr. Agarwal?”
“This is the Mississippi Institute for Cryogenic and Hospital.”
“Did you just say that I missed the last one and half century?”
“Yes, Sir.”
“I don’t know how…”
Everything seemed to collapse. He lost his orientation. With the surprise Dr. Elliott Wallace seemed to get mad.
Frantically he tried to move his body when the flying volleyball-robots appeared and fixated him on the bed.
“The patient has a shock. Doc Zero, inject him a sedative.”
Before he could realize a pain from the injection he felt asleep.
A car appeared left of him when he run on the street. His wife Sia was walking few meters ahead of him. On the way to a supermarket he lost his keys for their apartment and had to beg to grab them. To close the gap between them he began to run. But he didn’t see the car that came closer. She, who now stood on the street with two other guys, shouted, tried to warn him when the car came close. But it was too late. It hit him, chosen by an algorithm that recognized him as the lesser loss compared to the group of three left to the car.
He remembered the day when his life changed forever. But what happened since was a myth. Everything felt so strange, so heavy like if he had a hangover.
“You feel better now?”, a robot asked him. Again it was a flying robot with a net-like skin.
“Yes, thank you.”
“Very good. I am Bill, Sir. Your personal guardian.”, the robot introduced himself.
It… or he? He talked like a real human, though he didn’t looked like one.
Nobody was around him. The room was clean, everything was white, just one wall was orange and felt like a giant heater. Or was it the bulbless lamp above him?
“Do you want me to turn on the lensector?”
“What is a lensector?” He had no idea. But it must be electric. Something for the eyes?
Before Elliott was able to finish his thoughts Bill the robot turned on the bulbless lamp as he called it and something weightless appeared over his legs. Was it a 3D-printed object made of pader or anything else? He carefully tried to touch it, but there was no resistance.
“Is it real?”
“I am sorry, Dr. Wallace. I forgot that you didn’t come from our time. The lensector is comparable what you know as television. It is a hologram-like projection that exactly simulates the surface and all structures of objects in front of a sensor.”
“You forgot? You are a robot, Bill. How can you forget it?”
“My source code was developed to learn and apply feelings and to act like humans. As a semi-humanoid robot I am able to have feelings, to learn and to forget.”
A knock snipped the silence after Bill’s words.
“Professor Chen!”, Elliott said with some surprise. He forgot her, though she was the first human he saw.
She came into the room with nothing more than her clothes.
“Bill is a second-degree citizen. Our politicians are discussing if second-degree citizens like him should get the right to vote. They can feel like we do, but they are based on genetic algorithms.”
“You are a two-class society?”
“Three classes. Human beings and light cyborgs, middle cyborgs and semi-humanoid robots, and robots and rooters.”
He didn’t understand, was confused by the names. “Who are all these kind of classified… things?”
“You’ll learn about them later. Now I want to tell you more about your status. Please excuse my voice, generally I don’t use it, but you are not able to receive our waves. Dr. Agarwal was working on a transfer of your mind from a medium to a new brain. He didn’t…”
What was she talking about? His mind didn’t change, he was in his own body. Wasn’t he?
“…complete his job. He moved to Aldrin City on the moon. This was several years ago, before I started my job here.”
With a few steps she got closer to him and touched his upper arm.
“This is real flesh. But here…,”, she touched his elbow, “starts your mechanic arm.”
He looked down and his eyes recognized an artificial arm, black, shining in the light from the lamp over him, reflecting the young face of Professor Chen.
“You gave me an arm made of carbon?”
“Graphene, and not only your arm. You have lost your legs and your right arm. And Dr. Agarwal once replaced parts of your skull with titan. Your brain was heavily damaged due to the accident and after a first transfer we moved your memories and other content from a human brain to a hard drive, not larger than a tear.”
“Dr. Wallace, you are a cyborg.”, Bob said and nodded his metal head.
“But I can’t feel a change, no pain.” And he really had no pain, nothing that could have made him feel like a different being. Nevertheless, his mind didn’t grasp what the people have done to him who could have been his n-th grandchildren. It must be a joke, he thought.
“Your wife”, Chen said when he tried to move “left a notice for you. She believed that you would wake up later and you did.”
“My wife is….?” The voice was trembling. Chen was cold or had a stone-hard heart.
“She died on Toronto, Canada on October 23 2109.”
On the bed Wallace crouched, trying to isolate himself from the surroundings, something that was so surreal.
“My dearest Elliott, decades have passed since you have been killed in the accident. I never gave up my belief in your return to life. But now I fear that you will return to life when I am gone, when I became a part of the mother earth again while scientists let you walk on the ground of our planet. Please know that I never stopped loving you and wherever you are, whenever you are, nothing can stop me from doing this. In love, your Sia.”
Tears trickled down his cheeks and everybody heard him crying. He was alive while his wife has been waiting for him. Never again he would see her, her face, her lovely hair. Never would they have kids. And everything happened over a century ago? The faith to lose Sia weighted more than the hard reality of living in a new ‘now’ that he didn’t know.
Days have passed since he underwent that Sia was already dead and he was a man who came back to live in a far future. In the medical center he met other men like him, who once lived in other times and with other people. Once man used cryogenic in the late 1990s and had no idea of September 11, the war in Iraq or the Fall of Aleppo. In their minds North Korea was still sovereign state and nobody ever heard of Oculus Government.
Next to his bad Elliott had a piece of paper. Not a conventional paper. It was a bendable, electronic device with OLED-Ink. It looked like a tablet, but it was as thin as a real piece of paper, supplied by energy from photosynthesis within the cells of the paper.
He learnt everything from history to science, from the struggle with first smart robots to the milestone to overcome the lightspeed-limit, when astronauts first reached Proxima Centauri within two weeks and renamed it after two scientists from Yale University.
But from time to time he looked up and saw nurses, doctors and others passing by. They didn’t say anything. Instead two individuals looked into their eyes like two lovers who never have to say a word to understand each other. He didn’t understand. More was he confused when he began to talk to himself and people looked at him like if he was insane.
Just in the moment a preacher, who returned to life after he was shot in the heart, entered his room and smiled.
“My Son, what are you reading?”
Elliott knew him from some discussions on the floor when he used his new legs. A nice, small but fat man with a big nose.
“Reverend!” He took down the paper. “The history of the last century. Just reading the chapter about the re-unification of Europe with Russia and the United Kingdom.”
“Our world has changed. Believe me, when I woke up in this time, only the Lord knew why he did this to man like you and me.”
“At least we can talk. It’s terrific that people don’t want to talk to me, except of some robots, those who share my faith and Professor Chen.”
The reverend looked into Elliott’s eyes. They were blushed and sad. It was hard for Elliott Wallace to accept his faith, to understand what happened.
“It’s not their fault. Communication has changed during our deep sleep. Humans are using invisible waves to communicate.”
Invisible waves, it sounded like magic or that the man in his black suit has gone crazy. Otherwise, he never heard anything, no voice, no whistling. Nothing. It was scary.
“You are talking about psychological transmission?”
“No, it’s not such a thing.”
His hand grabbed a chair and he sat down with the chest to the chair back.
“In the twenty twentieths a company called Synapse started the development of a biological computer that implemented a computer into your body. No screen, no keyboard. You controlled it your mind like you do when you walk. The more people used it, the more were able to communicate by using an internet-like system and their mind.”
He explained that the shift from vocal languages to a digital translation of our thoughts that allowed men to talk with everybody, nevertheless where they came from. Synapse’s bio-computers, which were designed by a German-born US-American who made it to became elected governor of California, changed the way people interact with the environment. The augmentation of human senses increased their effectivity, but has also changed the whole society.
“But I never felt something like this since I woke up here.”
“Because we never got this. Professor Chen told me that people like us get this later, so that we have time to realize what happened.”
And Elliott understood. What would happen if you wake up and you can hear all the voices. Or whatever you would hear. Maybe it was like a LSD-trip. Or if you gone mad. How could people live with all the voices he asked. But he got no answer.
“Elliott, all I know is that we are one of a kind in a society with real races. I don’t talk about black and white, yellow and red. With the invention of the bio-computers the human race separated into multiple sub-categories with different evolutions. The so called ‘normal’ humans still live in the cities and smaller towns. Often they live in harmony with the modified humans or homo mutatio, cyborgs like you, with revive-androids and androids. But the cyborgs are dominating. But there are also the rooters, humans who used the progress to become animals again. And we have Lunatics and Martians, human beings that began to change due to gravity and other settings on planet Mars and the moon. Not everybody likes the development of mankind and poachers are partly trying to hunt the rooters.”
“Who are the rooters?”
“Rooters are a movement and sub-category of humans who think that, after centuries of losing their instincts, Synapse allowed them to reclaim their natural instinct like nosing the way dogs do, seeing in the night like an owl and so on. With these modifications they are losing their ties to our civilization and move into the wilderness. Here in New Orleans you often find some of them, recognizable by their fur, arms and legs. They partly fight with alligators and other bigger animals.”
“How was your first contact with a rooter?”, Elliott asked, curious like a lad listening to his grandpa.
“Let me ask Professor Chen if we can take a walk. Then you’ll see.”
A warm wind blew by and they saw the sun sinking. The orange ball covered the landscape into his colors. The dam surrounding the city of New Orleans, the old Saints-stadium and every district. The oceans weren’t able to destroy the half-finished dome while it left its imprint through the increase of quagmires. Crocodiles were swimming around, like sleeping titans, but so dangerous. The medical center wasn’t far away from the city, not far from here, but both were divided by the endless and heavy jungle that grew here. Climate has changed over the centuries, has changed the environment.
Here they stood in front of a cabin. Old, with holes in the roof, next to the water. In a rocking chair the men saw a lady with dungarees. She looked like a farmer from Iowa. But the closer they got, the more he recognized the hair in her face, on her arms, the muscles and all. First when the looked at the visitors Elliott saw her red flashing eyes.
“Welcome back!”, she said with her gasping voice. Her tongue scared him when he saw the split. It was like she was a snake.
“A praised evening, dear lady.” The reverend kissed her right hand like a gentlemen from the south while Elliott kept the distance. “I want to introduce you to my friend. Like me he woke up in the time you call present.”
“What’s your name, lad?”, she asked. Then Elliott recognized that he even didn’t know the name of the reverend.
“Elliott, ma’am. Elliott Wallace. But I don’t even know the reverend’s name.”
“My name is Reverend Berry Woodlove, son, and this is Antonia. She lived here for nearly one and a half century.”
“One and a half? Are you over a hundred years old?”
“One hundred and forty six years.”, she said.
He had no idea, she didn’t look so old, nor did she had grey hair.
The reverend smiled at her. Few months ago he met the lady who was one of the first who enjoyed the treatment for longer life, supported by Silicon Valley billionaires who tried to defeat death. And they did well, though the oldest person died with two-hundred thirty one.
“Antonia is a rooter, Elliott. She was the first rooter I ever met. She fought with an crocodile when I was walking down the path. Look at her muscles. Not normal for a human being. Her teeth, her eyes. She eats more raw meat than we would do if you are not Japanese and can see in the dark. The lady is a new race. And her way isn’t done yet.”
“What does it mean?”
“Well, she is still working on becoming a part of mother nature, she told me.”
Does she want to become an animal, he asked with disbelief, unable to imagine how an individual could choose this way.

HIS NAME WAS ROLANDO
A memoir of a young gangster turned proto-zombie in the jungles of Mexico…
>>>>>>ON:07/06/26 23:41 UNST-4WHO: anonymous WROTE:
His name was Rolando, and like anyone under UN jurisdiction, he wanted a change. He wanted to live above the class system and look down on those who stood above him in his youth. Rolando went to El Circo as often as he could, always hoping for Xavier and La Trinidad to give him a chance, even a heel match with a kayfabe outcome; in short, Rolando seethed with desire to live The Life.
Finally, his chance came.
Rolando had submitted his DNA for analysis, as did all potential luchadors.
Once Xavier’s medical staff had decided whether or not Rolando could be of use, he was invited to go up against Estrello in a Saturday afternoon match that was to be televised. Getting on TV during one’s first match was not unheard of, but it was certainly rare enough to make others take note.
The match began with Rolando being able to hold his own through several difficult maneuvers; however, Estrello essentially toyed with him for the first five minutes. After Estrello broke out a few dazzlers to get rid of some ring-rust, Xavier gave the sign while Rolando lay on the mat, begging for the ref to stop the fight.
Estrello stalked his prey, plotting how to end the match.
An Irish-whip to the ropes launched Rolando into Estrello’s devastating frankensteiner. Rolando’s head smacked the ring floor, giving his spinal column a jolt. Dazed, he scrambled to pull himself up on the ropes, only for Estrello to leap over his head and then contort Rolando into his signature submission, The Tarantula.
Rolando could feel the disks between his vertebrae shrinking as Estrello locked the hold in place.
After forty-five grueling seconds, Rolando gave in and blacked out.
That was the last time anyone in Los Volcanes saw the Rolando Vazquez Villar they knew and loved.
Over time, there were sightings of a man driving a ground-level turbine-converted military transport with a canvas-covered bed while wearing the exact mask Rolando had worn on the night he lost to Estrello and subsequently vanished. The sightings became so frequent that after a while, one of Rolando’s relatives decided to investigate.
Carlos Juarez de la Tienda Villar made sure his plasmatic pistol had fresh Ionian algae in it. He headed out after he saw the turbine in question pass by on its way out of the city, following closely on a hoverboard in camouflage.
After a little over an hour, they arrived at Narcofarm #729-Q, near Cocotitlán. The imposing Hive rose into the sky about seven stories by Carlos’ estimate. Flocks of nocturnal birds circled around the top of the Hive, squawking and diving down into the jungle within.
What could they possibly be growing here? Carlos thought to himself.
Carlos hung back and watched as the armed guards shined their lights into the cab and then into the back of the truck. Their inspection turned toward the undercarriage and ended with a walk-around. The heavy gates resembling a clasped pair of hands slid apart and the truck crept into the compound. Carlos took advantage of what looked like flirting between the two guards and shot in behind the truck.
On the other side of the gate was a jungle of foliage bent and contorted into a tunnel. The truck’s brake lights served as his guide while he kept low behind the old converted military transport. Eventually he caught up to the vehicle and grabbed hold of a handle next to the tailgate. Peeking around the side of the truck, Carlos almost lost his head to a tree branch. The truck had turned off the dirt road and out of the tunnel, and was now seemingly carving its own path through the jungle.
Carlos risked his head once more and noticed that they were approaching a clearing. He let go of the handhold and kick-flipped into a shrub, where he watched the truck park outside of a small, overgrown hangar drowning in jungle flora. The mass of chlorophyll delivery systems peeled back when the truck approached.
The large turbine engine shuddered off and the doors kicked open.
The man in Rolando’s mask hopped out and joined a man in a lab coat approaching from the passenger side, and they walked into the now-open hangar.
After an interval, ‘Rolando’ and the fellow in the lab coat reemerged with more guards and lowered the tailgate of the truck, converting it into a small staircase. Trailing behind the guards were men in luchador masks, shimmering green coveralls, fetters, and chains. The men in luchador masks were led into the back like sheep and the guards locked them into the seats that filled the back of the truck. Then, more men in lab coats filed out from the hangar and came over to the truck.
Climbing into the back, they began to hook up IV lines connected to a tank mounted on the inner ceiling of the truck to the backs of the masked-men’s heads. A mildly luminous green liquid began its flow from the tank and into the masked, listless men.
All at once, the masked men went limp in their restraints.
The lab coats now left the truck and walked with the guards back into the hangar from which they emerged. ‘Rolando’ walked back to the driver’s side and climbed into the cab. The truck’s turbine whined to life and the vehicle swung around. Carlos then spotted a second occupant in the truck’s cab. The truck groused as it turned and began heading back out the way it came in. Carlos clutched his plasmatic pistol, took a breath, and grabbed onto the truck’s back bumper as it rumbled by. Behind them, the hangar doors closed with the guards and doctors securely inside, and the dense foliage snapped perfectly back into place as the truck progressed, concealing both the facility and the vehicle’s tracks.
Carlos climbed up and looked into the back of the truck. The men were out cold, their lifeless bodies reacting to the truck’s movements as it lumbered through the dense jungle. The truck turned out from the foliage-tunnel leading to the hangar and onto the proper road. As the truck whined toward the guarded main entrance, Carlos climbed with his board over the tailgate into the back the truck and joined the lifeless men in masks.
Ducking under the bench seats, Carlos held his breath as the guards looked in, under and through the truck. Carlos waited in agony, and finally, the truck pulled off.
He waited until he knew that they were alone along the dark road that connected the rural districts to the metropolitan. Carlos decided that now was his chance. He emerged from under the bench seats and activated his hoverboard.
Again climbing over the tailgate, he slipped his foot into the board’s secure harness and began to hover behind the truck, his hands holding tightly to whatever he could find. Carlos crept along the outside of the truck and made his way to the passenger door by letting his fingers guide him.
 In the passenger side mirror, he noted the two men riding in the cab. The man in the passenger seat wore a mask that Carlos had never seen before. The mask was yellow with black and blue accents around the eyes and mouth, and on the crown was a yarmulke-shaped logo that resembled the national seal of the Free Republic of Venezuela. The FRV? Carlos wondered. What is someone from outside the UN-sanctioned territories doing here? 
 Limited to the passenger side view mirror, Carlos could only see the eyes of the driver who was wearing Rolando’s mask, and he knew right away: it was Rolando. Those were the eyes Carlos spent years looking into. They were indisputably the very pupils that had once maintained rapt focus during any and all advising, admonishing, and encouraging. Without his father’s ready presence, Rolando had silently begged his uncle for tutelage over the years as a youth.
Carlos moved further alongside the truck until he was just behind the passenger door. Carlos deactivated his hoverboard and clipped it onto his small backpack. It was here he laid out his plan in his mind, noticed the complete lack of supervision along this empty country road, and took his shot.
Carlos snapped into position on the running board below the passenger-side window and fired the plasmatic pistol into the face of the man in the passenger seat. With a flash, the man’s head exploded, letting loose a steady flow of foul-smelling green ooze. The body convulsed and the left arm shot for the wheel, causing the truck to careen toward a ditch. Rolando corrected and kept the truck from catastrophe. Carlos flung open the passenger door and hurled the now limp and headless Venezuelan from the cab.
“Rolando! Rolando! It’s me, Carlos! What the hell are you doing!?” Carlos panted as the shock of kicking a headless, oozing man out of a speeding turbine settled in.
Rolando remained silent and focused on the road.
Tears began streaming from Carlos’ eyes as Rolando wouldn’t — no, couldn’t — acknowledge his uncle’s pleas.
Up ahead, Carlos was able to make out what looked like a checkpoint. Panicking, he scrambled around the cab, trying to think of something, anything, he could do to dissuade the guards from looking further into the green mess in the cab.
Stuck to the cab’s roof was the majority of the Venezuelan’s mask, the face mostly intact. Carlos took a deep breath, grabbed the warm, viscous mask, and slid it over his quaking face.
The truck slowed to a stop at the tollbooth-like checkpoint, and Carlos kept his eyes fixed straight ahead, just like Rolando’s. The guards, two of them, casually strolled out from the dimly lit shack. Their teeth were black from the lysergic betel nut gum that Xavier produced at the farm the truck had just come from. The guards first checked what was most important: the cargo in the back.
Apparently satisfied, the guards pallidly waved the truck through. The arm lifted, Rolando released the brake and the truck whined on. Carlos watched the side-view mirror with stiff paranoia, and he finally exhaled when the post was out of sight. He ripped off the disgusting mask and spit. Crying again, he wiped his eyes and turned to Rolando.
“Rolando. We’ve missed you. Me, your tía Manuela, your siblings, your wife,” Carlos pleaded. “Rolando, we had no idea what happened to you after the match with Estrello. We shunned the rumors people from outside the metro areas were spreading… ‘Poison,’ ‘filth,’ ‘venom,’ we all said.”
Carlos opened the glove compartment, and discovered a pack of Sol Verde Supremo cannabis and opium cigarettes with a hashish center, and lit one. He sat for a minute letting the THC and other compounds course through his body. He felt the opium relax his shoulders, and take away his disgust and replace it with remorse. Carlos now came to the realization that all the rumors were, in fact, true. The sweet-smelling cigarette, now halfway put to rest, sizzled in Carlos’ fingers.
Listless and empty, Carlos turned to Rolando.
“Rolando. I made a promise to your father before he was taken, too. I told him I would raise you right. I told him I wouldn’t let you fall to El Burro.”
His lips quivering, Carlos unsheathed his glass plasmatic pistol.
The Ionian algae within bounded in its translucent enclosure above the barrel.
“I’m sorry, Vicente…” Carlos muttered.
Rolando’s head sharply turned to face him.
His eyes ablaze, Rolando went for the gun. Carlos blocked the advance, but the truck swerved. Carlos leapt for the wheel while shoving Rolando’s head into the back of the driver’s seat. The truck was now approaching the outskirts of metro Mexico City, about twenty-seven minutes out from Los Volcanes. Other cars slowly started appearing on the now-paved highway they were crisscrossing.
Rolando’s strength was unceasing, and Carlos couldn’t match it for much longer.
The truck ran a small, rusted van off the road and into a storefront. Rolando’s hand shot under the dash and withdrew a gilded blade. Carlos saw an ancient pump-gasoline station coming up and jammed his boot onto Rolando’s wingtip, gunning the turbine engine.
Rolando arched back and slammed the blade deep into Carlos’ stomach. Carlos howled and grit his teeth as blood forced its way between each tooth and into the cab.
Rolando’s mouth popped open. An awful, banshee’s shriek began blaring out.
The truck hit the curb, making it airborne. Carlos erupted through the confusion and squeezed the trigger. The Ionian algae, fully Amplified, sprayed its raging interstellar electromatter into the midsection of Rolando, causing another eruption of green luminescence. His limp body gently slumped over into the door.
The truck plowed into a row of gas pumps spray painting the neighborhood in a caustic white.
High-temperature white fire engulfed the truck, spurred on by the green-liquid tanks in the back. The metal frame proved too weak for the intense heat and within minutes the truck was an ashen crater.
People from the neighborhood poured out to see what had happened.
The police arrived along with one of Xavier’s clean-up crews.
The area was cordoned off, a tent was erected, and the armed guards were deployed.
The next morning, nothing remained but a large, open sore in the Earth.
>>>>>>>>>END.
Carlos’ story survived due to his personal black box.
Carlos was a former member of MSF9, or “Los Nueves Muertos”, Mexico’s black-ops division, and subsequently paranoid and meticulous about every aspect of his life. Before setting out on this mission, he set up a relay on himself. Everything he saw and heard was live-streamed to a computer in his house.
His wife knew what was going on and it tortured her to open the file the next day after he didn’t return home.
To honor his memory and sacrifice, she leaked the video on the Ultranet. It was only up for twenty-two hours, but during that time, it started a fire, and more stories and experiences were subsequently posted. The rumor mill in this part of town nearly exploded as stylized portraits of Carlos and Rolando began appearing on flyers, in graffiti, and of course on the Ultranet.
And yet, while people raged on the message boards, no one was bold enough to come from behind their keyboard and point the finger at El Burro.
The police and UN patrols regulated the legal distribution of Xavier’s raw narcocrops to the major manufacturers of narcoproducts, who also employed nearly everyone in Los Volcanes. Somehow, someway, if one lived in The Pith, they owed their livelihood to El Burro.
Who could the people turn to? Who was there to stand up to the man who made this district the gem of Mexico City? El Burro built this city and the lives of all of its inhabitants. Would anybody point their finger at him, risking their life and the lives of every person they knew? And for what? So the UN could swing its big stick again and globally shame yet another citizen? No, no no. Not Manuela, not Carlos’ children, not even Rolando’s wife was willing to openly turn a spotlight on Xavier’s work.

HIS NAME WAS ROLANDO
A memoir of a young gangster turned proto-zombie in the jungles of Mexico…
“Yes. She will later become a part of the animal kingdom and leave our civilization. Synapse allows us to modify our genetic pool and live without any needs for a computer. No PC, no Mac or else. She has a computer in her brain, a biological one, and the cells that can automatically improve her genes.”
“But, ma’am,why did you choose this?”
She didn’t look happy about the question, but remind herself of the reverend’s questions when she met him.
“Society has nothing to offer. I am not interested in travelling to other planets, in painting or else. I am a child of the nature and want to regain what our ancestors lost to progress. Instead of hunting and collecting I will become a predator and live in harmony with the circle of life.”
“But you are so old, you have seen the past and know how mankind evolved. Now you are done with it?”
“I saw that mankind lost its control when we assigned all tasks to robots. Boredom was the result.”, she replied with a sad voice. But she saw that Elliott didn’t understand. She asked the reverend if he could explain it to the stranger he introduced to her few minutes ago.
“When robots and AI took over more of our jobs, the economy has changed. People lost their jobs. The unemployed stayed poor until the governments introduced a basic income before they introduced a distribution-system for resources. And robot producers reduced the prices for their products.”
“The day will come when I reunite with the nature.”, she said and looked at the horizon. Sun is gone, it was night.
On their way back to the center nobody said a word. Elliott was fascinated, thought about what he saw with his own eyes and what would have been a myth in the time when his grandfather lived.
“Now that you live here, do you still believe in God?”, Elliott asked.
“Why do you ask, son?”, Reverend Woodlove replied without any doubt in his voice.
“People are changing their appearance, robots are doing human jobs. Everything is possible. It seems that there’s no deus, but dei. Gods, not a single God.
“I think that God is guiding us. He gives us the freedom we want. You are responsible for your own actions.”
“But mankind is exploring more and more. According to the book I read, there are few open secrets left.”
“As long as there is something unknown, God exists. God is the unknown, something we can’t explain.”
Back at the hospital Professor Chen expected them.
“Where have you been?”, she asked angrily.
“Visiting somebody in the quagmire.”, the reverend responded, neither impressed nor scared by her mood.
“I told you not to get there often enough. It’s dangerous for somebody unable to talk the Lingua Animal! Besides you as second- and third-class citizens aren’t allowed to leave without permission.”
“But the reverend asked you…”
“I asked her if we walk on the ground of the medical center, Elliott!”, Woodlove stopped him.
“If law enforcement catches you, we’ll have many problems!”, she warned them. Two assistants, strong, tall, brown taint, came there and brought them back to their rooms.
The guys didn’t say a word while Elliott was thinking about Chen mentioning the second and the third class and that they weren’t allowed to leave. What did it mean? The longer he lived in the in this time, the more he was confused.
Wordless they left him when they reached his room. The door behind him closed automatically.
Immediately he grabbed the tablet and opened the encyclopedia. All the keywords he heard this day need to be understood.
Second class he typed and promptly got a result which referred him to a topic called Society Structure.
“…due to the autonomous behavior of robots and cyborgs and the degressive development of the rooters to turn themselves into a kind of animal the parliament voted for a class system that took basic rights from robots, some kind of cyborgs and rooters.”
He couldn’t believe nor did he realize what he read. From the moment he woke up he became a less valuable man. It was like he woke up as an afro-american in the forties.
Then he touched himself, his arms, legs, his breast, his head. Nothing has changed, his thoughts were the same as when he had the accident. But what they have made of him changed himself, made him, who he is now. He never decided to become a cyborg, nobody asked him to become one. Like nobody asked black people to be black or gay people to be gay.
In his body he felt the anger on the doctors who did this to him. What is life worth if you wake up as somebody who has fewer rights than anybody else?
To be continued
Dei — Part 1
Waking up in a new, strange world


Bees of Obsidian and Gold
In the land of Crystal Flowers lived the Bees of obsidian and gold. This world was young then, and the Bees worked undisturbed. In the long day they labored, collecting nectar from blossoms, and in the long night they slept still as ice. This world was young then.
The Hive, the Flower, and the air between — nothing more did they see. Little notice they took when primeval paws undid their hard work. Nature gave and Nature destroyed. They rebuilt their Hive, one cell then another, and soon all was restored. How could they know — these faint beings of old — what power they wrought?
For them, the Honey was like water — the dry and delicate lifeblood of their existence. Our ancestors found it sweeter than any ambrosia, an intoxicating draught not intended for minds small as theirs. In time their minds stirred, and they took note of the creatures from whom they stole. The Bees’ mellifluous humming became the fountain from which all music sprung, their architecture a blueprint we have never managed to build. They saw the world as a whole — the Bees of obsidian and gold — with everything held together by some inscrutable geometry.
The Flowers remain, housed in castles of quartz, but the Bees went long ago. This land of stone was uplifted by their Honey, giving birth to heaving colossi with sapient clockwork, a civilization built on pollen and wax.
Remember the Bees, child, for in these uncertain times, we must hope that that Nature deigns to preserve us. For all we know, we gather nectar for titans oncoming. Remember the Bees.

Bees of Obsidian and Gold
In the land of Crystal Flowers lived the Bees of obsidian and gold. This world was young then, and the Bees worked…
“Starchild” © Cedric Peyravernay, All Rights Reserved
Starchild
A military leader’s unauthorized decision to destroy an alien starship presages a fateful expansion of Humanity into space.
Commander Mfune strode the decks of the great Benai starship, his footfalls echoing through corridors once filled with life, which now reverberated with the sounds of his steps alone; his and the specter of Death.
His crew had long since abandoned this edifice, a magnificent creation of an alien intelligence. From the corner of his eye, he could see the protean walls changing and reverting to a simplified and darkened state. Controls, displays, panels all faded back into the surface, becoming smooth and quiescent, the same state it was in when it arrived.
Humanity’s first contact was so different than anyone could have expected. At first, cheers of jubilation went out among the gathered representatives of Earth-Fleet as the Benai Aethership arrived on schedule exactly where their messages said they would.
As as aether-sign grew stronger, the ship became more material as it took station above the moon of Titan, in the shadow of Saturn. As it drew closer, the distance and lack of clarity fell away. A testament to their superior ability, the Benai ship was nearly as large as Titan itself.
As the ship fell into normal space, scientists on Earth Fleet ships and on Titan Station scrambled to their sensors, fearful this monstrosity might cause a disturbance in the nearby gravity well of Titan.
Their fears turned to wonder as they discovered the aether-ship existed partially in normal space and partially in aether-space simultaneously, sharing with real space, only what was necessary to perceive it and interact with it. This was a previously unrealized possibility.
The tear-shaped crafted-world answered no communication broadcasts, even when sent on what was thought to be an established channel.
As the ship slowed and took position above Titan, its outer hull smoothed, the vast engines and aether-vanes which maintained its transit field slowly dwindled over the course of an hour, until it appeared as little more than a shining metal tear drop flickering in the wan sunlight.
Their ship awed and humbled us, once we could see it in all its glory. Then the murmuring began, whispers which stank of fear and shame. What if they’re like us? What could we do to stop them? The reality was telling. Earth-Fleet was the most advanced technological development of the Aether technology made by Humanity to date. And it was just a shadow of what the Benai now showed them was possible.
Diplomats, scientists and soldiers boarded shuttles, as laid out in previous communication bursts with the Benai, though no such communication had taken place in nearly a year. Their approach caused access portals to light up and the ship came alive.
Its previously smooth skin, emitted beams of light, striking each approaching shuttle , and pulling them to the ship. The beams of light took control of the shuttles, repositioning them. Then the skin of the Aethership rippled, changed, and puckered into a seal capable of connecting each shuttle to the Benai hull, securely. The shuttles nestled up alongside, as if they were had become a part of the Benai technology.
The shuttles reported a positive atmosphere, though no one was willing to give up their spacesuits unnecessarily. The interior was nearly pitch black but slowly lit up as the Humans entered and moved about the vessel. The apprehension grew as the security teams fanned out, sweeping the hanger areas for signs of habitation. There were none. It would take another two weeks to for confirmation of what Mfune somehow knew as soon as he stepped on board.
There was no one alive on this ship.
The walls reverberated with a presence . A perturbation of consciousness which, in the weeks to come, grew stronger. The commander dismissed this, at first, but the longer he stood on the ship, the more he could sense the echoes of minds around him. Strong minds, their remnants burned into the very metal itself.
No scientist agreed to stay on the ship for too long, complaining of feelings of discomfort, things seen from the corner of their eyes, voices speaking to them, chanting litanies of madness and death.
Mfune understood.
He had been onboard the Aethership since its arrival. His ship and his welcome fleet waited nearby, disappointment wafting from them, a redolent wind even in the vacuum of space.
Everyone had long waited for these benefactors of Humanity to arrive. For nearly three hundred years we waited. Two hundred of them spent in relentless combat to decipher the crumbs of knowledge given to us by the Benai.
When the Benai first sent messages to Earth, it was a time of great trouble. Food shortages, drought, endless wars over resources were the only legacies of Earth at the time. It was estimated that we would never see the end of the twenty-first century. With the air hotter than ever, almost all life in the oceans dead, we were poised for extinction, one last battle away from non-existence — when their message came.
SETI shared it. They thought it might give the warring factions hope of a world beyond warfare.
It could be nothing but a message from an alien culture. Spliced together from transmissions from Earth, our simplest radio and television communication, they had managed to send us a message, that was unmistakably alien and yet still able to be received. Encoded within the transmission was information — an alien technology which would open our solar system to us: the Aetherdrive.
Nullifying or concentrating gravity as we needed, we took to the planets, for the first time able to escape gravity wells without the need for mass. Only energy was required. We stopped fighting, with the hope of exploration to galvanize us into space.
The remnants of humanity came together one last time and we flew into our solar system, distances between factions relieving our tensions, our urge for exploration and technological advancement reignited. Nations staked out moons, other planets, asteroids, and for a time, we found peace. A hundred years passed and we were explorers again.
It was not to last.
Mfune tugged his close fitting ceremonial uniform, feeling its age and antiquity upon it; the symbol for wars nearly a century out of date. A uniform worn by his father and his father before him, it represented a time when expansion ceased, trade began and, with trade came inequalities, and with inequality came frustration.
And this inevitably lead to war. Small wars at first, the Aethertech we developed was not like theirs. Inefficient, small, limited…we could not create massive weapons of war. Our battles were surgical, doing just enough damage to keep the species going. Most prayed the Benai would arrive and save us from ourselves. It would not be soon enough.
The commander looked around at the vastness of their world-ship and realized just how puny the largest of the human warships was in comparison. His science team had scoured the ship. There were medical technologies beyond our understanding, tools that reacted to mental directives, materials that took on shapes envisioned by the user. Things that appeared as magic to us.
There was one marked difference between the Benai ship and the Human Earth-Fleet. The Benai had no weapons. Nothing that could easily harm another. The supposition was they might not have needed to have active weapons, they created them only when needed. No need to keep an armory, when you can envision your gun and have your ship make it on the spot.
Perhaps, but Mfune doubted that. His feel of the ship did not bespeak violence. It bespoke curiosity. It bespoke an urge to know, to learn, to embrace the new. And the voices which cried out in his mind, that leapt from the bulkheads, told him he was right.
So what happened to them? Why was there only this one remaining? Out of fear or perhaps reverence, no one touched the one corpse, this Starchild of an alien species. Scans were done, readings taken, tiny organic traces gathered.
All that Human science could accomplish in the twenty third century, a century after we had realized the foolishness of war, had been done. At the end of the Final Human War, it was called, we experienced a renaissance, a new Golden Age.
An age we were hoping to show to the Benai. An age of enlightenment which revealed to us what the Benai already knew; how to take the Aethership to near light speeds. Fast enough to travel to other stars. We wanted to show them we had learned, evolved and could one day, maybe be their equals, with their help.
How could we know the Benai had continued to monitor us; watching us grow and develop. They watched us step out into space and explore our planets. They watched us wage countless new wars, more terrible than any before them.
So what happened to them? Why was there only this one remaining? Out of fear, or perhaps reverence, no one touched the one corpse, this Starchild of an alien species. Scans were done, readings taken, tiny organic traces gathered, but it mysteriously remained mostly inviolate.
Mfune walked into what was believed to be the command structure of the ship and where the sole occupant of the craft resided. While few could even enter this room without the ghosts overwhelming them, Mfune, a remnant of a warrior age, knew and accepted this feeling. He suspected that influence was what protected the Starchild from being removed.
He touched the alien and its memories filled him. Memories of the madness that swept through the Benai as they listened to the transmissions of our wars. The horror they experienced as we senselessly destroyed one another with the tools and technology they had innocently given us.
Tools they had never thought to make war with. Mfune gently cradled the alien body. Deceptively light, its consciousness suffused him, he could see Human madness sweeping through the Benai, like a contagion. They destroyed themselves as each became exposed to the recordings. They thought they knew the depths of what we could become. They thought they could withstand our cruelty to teach us a better way. The longer they watched, the more of our madness spread to them. In the century left to their arrival, they went mad.
Some dropped dead on the spot. Others fled and threw themselves into airlocks and fled escaped into space. Ever dutiful, their starship cleaned up after them, reintegrating them with the materials of their ship, embodying their very essence within its walls.
This last member of their crew isolated himself in the command area and refused to interact with the crew, refused to listen to any of the recordings and his was the last message sent to Earth Earth…before we lost all communication with them during the Last Great Human War.
“We loved you. And we are undone.”
Mfune volunteered for this mission, for no one could make sense of the message during the Second Golden Age of Man. He wanted to be the first to understand why such a strange message was sent when the first ones were so hopeful.
He opened the isolation pod and placed the Starchild within. The ship seemed to respond to him now, he had been onboard for so long. With an understanding given to him by his connection to the Benai, he redirected the ship and plotted a course that would take the Aethership into the sun.
The samples collected from the Benai would be isolated and returned to Earth for storage. His priority-one message commanded that everyone who had entered this ship be kept apart from the population and quarantined, until they could be cleared for duty. All information on the Benai would be stored until a coalition of worlds could decide what should be done with it.
One technology from the Benai nearly destroyed Humanity. What would an entire ship full of their technology, gear we can barely understand, do to us?
As Mfune made his way to his shuttle, he considered the court martial he was liable to be subject to be facing as when the alien starship vanished into the Aether and plunged into the sun. “Why,” they would shout, “what wealth of knowledge could we could have possessed from them?”
Humanity, all of its factions, gave chase, eager to understand all that they could learn. But the Benai ship was superior in every way. No one would could be able to catch it or stop it. Its plunge into the sun was one of the media sensations of the era. Mfune was lauded and castigated, often in the same breath.
As he arrived on his flagship, a response would already be waiting waited regarding his directives. Outrage from the scientists, now recovered from the alien influence, would be demanding their liberty and their research. His But his words would stand.
On his trip back to Earth, his court martial was scheduled. Unsurprised, he already knew what he would say.
Resplendent in his father’s uniform, he stood before the tribunal, defiant. He wore his father’s uniform, closely reminiscent of his own, his father’s uniform was but a reminder; a remnant of a war that, no one dared forget — the darkest chapter in Humani history.
“Explain yourself,” was the general sentiment in the roaring tribunal chambers. Gone was the decorum he had come to know from previous visits. This was the shouting of factions, of groups who had already considered what could have been learned, what advantages each group had lost. A golden age had drawn to a close.
He responded simply. “The Benai were a simple people. They created complex technologies, to be sure, but they were a people of spirit, powerful of mind, generous to a fault.” His words silenced the room, eager to hang him for his perfidy and their incalculable loss.
“Recordings of our violence, as they approached the Earth, drove mad the crew aboard that great ship. These were a people who knew little of violence, of lack, or of war. From what I was able to learn of them, war was the concept of ours they understood the least.”
“Look at you. In this room, which has stood as a bastion for justice for a century, would you now revert to your factions for the sake of opportunity over one another? For a chance at dominance that we had once set aside for the overall good of mankind? But you see, I do not believe we have changed at all. I believe what we have done in the last hundred years is temporary, as it always has been in the past.”
“We hunted, we gathered, we squabbled. We created, we learned. We changed. We created agriculture and formed small towns, villages, townships, cities, states, and nations. Each time change took place, war followed us. We learned from war, we learned through war, we changed because of war. And a period of peace followed.”
“The Benai did not learn that way. They were cooperative, always. Their shared telepathy made acts against each other an act against themselves. The idea of our violence rendered them unable to continue their very existence. We were an infection, our violent nature became a mental virus they could not assimilate or withstand.
Only one voice could speak out now, the leader of the Colonies, an arrogant man whose role was as much a testament to his quest for power as his ability to lead men. “How does this excuse your treasonous act? With such technology we could have surely resolved many of the issues which prevent us from traveling to the stars. Commander, I demand you explain how your historical lesson is relevant?”
Mfune looked up and the spirit of the Benai filled him; with an acute awareness of the limitations of unconnected minds. He strove to be clearer. “Humanity is an expansionist species. We grow to fill the container we reside in. When we reach the limits of the container, we do not stop growing. We do not regulate our development, we do not even acknowledge our limits. We exceed them and expect technology to resolve the issue.”
“Such resolution is never without cost. Inevitably, we would likely go to war as we exhaust our solar system. Such pressures would invariably lead us to seek to expand again. Should we acquire their technology, as we did through their largess in the past, I expect we would expand, and, as is our nature, wage war on each other.”
Tears streaking down his face, he glared at each of the counselors in turn. “With our complete knowledge derived from their ship, we would want to go to their worlds. What would protect them from us?”
The tribunal was silent.
Justice was swift. Mfune left his command and many of his faithful left with him. Together, they founded a coalition with a single purpose : To warn the Benai, that Humanity was coming.
The Starchild revealed what they needed to know. Through Mfune, together the two of them would teach the coalition what they needed to learn. It would be decades, while Humanity waged what would one day be called the Expansionist Era, brought on by the fragments of knowledge learned from the few hours onboard that great starship.
An aging Mfune hoped there would still be time to save the Benai. The Starchild, resonating within Mfune’s mind, assured him there would be.
Starchild © Thaddeus Howze 2015, All Rights Reserved

Thaddeus Howze is a California-based technologist and author who has worked with computer technology since the 1980's doing graphic design, computer science, programming, network administration and IT leadership.
His non-fiction work has appeared in numerous magazines: Black Enterprise, the Good Men Project, Examiner.com, and Astronaut.com. He maintains a diverse collection of non-fiction at his blog, A Matter of Scale. He is a contributor at The Enemy, a nonfiction literary publication out of Los Angeles.
He is now a moderator and contributor to the Scifi.Stackexchange.com with over a thousand articles in a three year period. He is now an author and contributor at Scifiideas.com. His science fiction and fantasy has appeared in blogs such as Medium.com, the Magill Review, ScifiIdeas.com, and the Au Courant Press Journal. He has a wide collection of his work on his website, Hub City Blues. His recently published works can be found here. He also maintains a wide collection of his writing and editing work on Medium.com.
His speculative fiction has appeared in numerous anthologies: Awesome Allshorts: Last Days and Lost Ways (Australia, 2014), The Future is Short (2014), Visions of Leaving Earth (2014), Mothership: Tales of Afrofuturism and Beyond (2014), Genesis Science Fiction (2013), Scraps (2012), and Possibilities (2012).
He has written two books: a collection called Hayward’s Reach (2011) and an e-book novella called Broken Glass (2013). In 2015 he will be releasing Visiting Hours and A Millennium of Madness, two collections of short stories.
If you have enjoyed this publication or any of the other writing he does, consider becoming a Patron. For what you spend on one cup of coffee per month, you can assist him in creating new stories, new graphics, new articles and new novels. “Creating the new takes a little support.” — http://patreon.com/ebonstorm.


Starchild
A military leader’s unauthorized decision to destroy an alien starship presages a fateful…

How the Other Half Lives…
Even evil from beyond the stars occasionally spends the day at the beach.
“Devon, put your brother down this instant!”
My embodied sand dragon construct attacked Ken’s sand human form and was about to start shaking him before her timely interruption.
Both of our constructs fell apart and we walked out of the piles of sand. My younger brother was already stirring up sand with his feet and preparing to create a sand tsunami as soon as she looked back into her trans-dimensional reader. Paul was lying asleep on the beach still unaware of where we truly were.

My mother’s voice rang out over what would have been an otherwise deserted beach in what would have been Texas, if we were at home. Instead it was a shard realm where humanity hadn’t developed. To disguise our journey she had traveled to several shards that resembled ours, slowly moving further and further away until there was no sign of any human habitation.
She had told us on previous journeys to this beach about the incompatible physical parameters in the biome of this Earth. While humanity didn’t develop, there was plenty of wildlife here and we could see the fins of prehistoric beasts still swimming around off the coast.
We would swim out later and tackle a few of them after lunch. She said we would be fine as long as we wore our actuators.
Our family was not your typical one. Yes, we have one mortgage, two point three pets, two point one kids, and one semi-decent car. We live in a quiet suburb in some unassuming town in the middle of nowhere named Desolation, Arkansas. But that’s where the similarity ends.
Our father, whom we were going to meet today for the first time, was not from Earth. It was from his line our powers are descended. Though we had been using our abilities for years, my mother didn’t explain how we came by them until I was sixteen. It came at the end of her birds and the bees lecture.
“All of this conversation about sex is important but only half as important as what I am about to reveal to you. The man you have been calling Daddy, is not your father. Paul is my husband and he is helping me to raise you. But your father is someone else.”
“Is this where we got our powers?”
“Patents. They are not magic, per se. They’re a genetic technology woven into your DNA. His people call them patents. Without getting into detail, suffice it to say, you and your brother have several patents your father thought would help you survive childhood and your eventual return home.”
It was then many of the strange things about our childhood began to make sense. The fast healing even when we were really hurt. Not going to the doctor. Paul was our doctor and made sure we had whatever we needed medically. Our diet, which we were never allowed to share with anyone. And the one time I did, I nearly killed my best friend.
She looked at me and told me I was a man now and I would be able to keep my own actuator. She opened the lock box and handed me what looked like an ordinary, if stylish, wristwatch.
“Devon, I’m no longer going to tell you how to use your gifts. But know if you choose to use them while you are on Earth, you will attract the attention of beings who want nothing more than our utter destruction. If you decide to use your powers on Earth after you meet your father, you have our blessing.”
I snapped the actuator onto my wrist. I could feel the swirling energies within me suddenly align, and become able to be reached. It was like having cookies on the top of the refrigerator and no ladders or chairs in sight. “When are we going to meet him?”
She gave me the most curious look. One mixed with a multitude of emotions, sadness, regret and I think now that I was able to touch my inner sight, a measured dose of fear. “Today. But we will have to go on a picnic.” Picnic was the code word we used for a trip beyond our shard.
“Why can’t he just come here?”
“He is a rather unique being. He is from a shard so far removed from our Earth our physics could barely explain him, let alone contain him.”
With that mysterious musing, she packed up our picnic basket and took my brother Ken and I on a road trip. Today was also different in another way. Paul was with us. He had never come with us before on any of our special outings. Mother had given him a watch as a present that day and I could see its specialized technology protecting him as we moved from shard to shard.
When we reached our destination via the Way, we did all the things people do when they go to the beach. Swim, make sand castles, and after Paul went to sleep, we made larger sand castles that towered over the beach.
Around six, when the sun was heading into the west, mother signaled to us. She waved her hand and our sand castles which had run the length of the beach vanished in a tidal wave, she summoned to wash them away. Not a drop of water touched us. Once the beach was returned to normal, she woke Paul and made dinner.
It was then I noticed Ken looking around. Ken was far more in tune with his gifts, especially with his senses. He was able to see things beyond the realm of sight. He could hear people across a room as if they were right next to him. He could read the writing on a airplane five miles in the sky. He was only eleven and mother said his sensory powers would grow even greater by the time he was my age.
“Something’s out there,” he said pointing toward the sun.
“Finish your food.” Mother didn’t look up, she just finished plating our salads and sandwiches.
“Paul, I know you’ve wondered why I never took the boys to see their father. I am happy you were willing to take care of them just like your own sons. You will never know just how much I appreciated your help.”
Paul looked up and smiled. “It was my pleasure. They’re great boys.”
“Paul, walk with me. Boys, finish your food.”
It took the two of them a few minutes to walk to the water’s edge. It was then a noticeable wind began to grow stronger.
“Paul, it is that love you have for the boys that I have to do this.”
“Marilyn, what are you talking about?”
I watched my mother kiss Paul deeply and passionately. He seemed momentarily surprised and then settled into it. Ken had turned to look into the sun again, this time with an intensity that bordered on mania. I knew staring at the sun wouldn’t hurt him (he’d done it before) but I couldn’t see what he was seeing.
But I could feel it. An overwhelming sense of wrong. The kind of wrong I felt when I traveled to a new shard. It told me I didn’t belong here. What I was feeling was that same kind of wrong, except it was moving toward me. Fast.
I wanted to tell mother, but she and Paul had walked into the surf and were waist deep in the water. There was something in this moment that felt strangely private and I looked away.
“It’s here.” Ken intoned and then fell back onto the beach as if he had been hit in the head with an ax.
The wrong was all around me. A crushing sensation as if the very air had become liquid lead pressing onto me from every part of my being. I summoned my energy and filled myself with it. For a moment I could move again, and looked sunward. I saw what appeared to be a ball of night cross the setting sun. The sky blackened and it became instantly night.
It stayed night and when I looked up I saw no stars at all. A new shard had come to us.
A fireball fell into the ocean and a great wave began to build as the surf fell away. I called my power to me and ordered the sand to create a bulwark to protect my brother and I against the wave I knew would be coming. My mother stood over Paul, who had fallen still on the beach.
She seemed unconcerned. I layered the sand, compressed it, made it as strong as concrete, as stone, I visualized it as granite, completely impenetrable. I shaped it so the wave would break and split, diverting its force.
My mother’s power over water was legendary. I assumed she had her reasons for staying there.
Credits: Wlodi @ Flickr
The Experiment
Lt. Alvage wasn’t in the mood for this. Especially not when awakening after a year long preservation. That length of time was out of protocol, but orders from the top were not meant to be overturned due to small safety concerns. And really, it was a minor inconvenience, similar to ancient alcohol hangovers.
As was customary, the senior member of the ship was the first to awake — doing the honors of Preservation Breaking. Lt. Alvage had always thought this “honor” was silly. We have drones, why can’t they wake up first and prep? Traditions die hard.
At this awakening, a persistent beep and flickering of lights were pounding into Lt. Alvage’s hungover skull. This wasn’t supposed to be happening. It was hard enough to remember who you were, let alone process existential errors.
He quickly unstrapped himself from the chamber and awakened a nearby drone.
“Good awakenings, Lt. Alvage.”
Lt. Alvage managed something between a grumble and a snort.
“This was a long one, I know. But we will need you up to speed quickly. There is an anomaly.”
No shit, though Lt. Algave. It sounded like a jackhammer was piercing his skull each second.
“Can you turn that damn thing off. I feel like death.”
There was silence immediately.
Lt. Alvage managed to make it to his command chair. “Ship, what is the anomaly?”
“We have detected a civilization close to Type 1,” said the ship.
“Impossible.”
This was supposed to be a routine patrol mission.
“What system is this,” asked Lt. Alvage. Of course, he was supposed to know all this off the top of his head, but at this point, he was feeling jaded about these damn patrol missions.
“It is Earth 4255 P-33. Experiment type C.”
Lt. Alvage shifted dramatically in his seat.
“Type C?! Why was that major detail left out in the briefing?”
For years, Lt. Alvage had been assigned to assist with the Grand Experiment Project doing research on specie interpolation. Forging the future of humanity was no small task, and there was no better place to start than to study how humans would interact under different histories.
Type C, though, was something the lieutenant had never encountered. He remembered studying the different human types in his briefings over the years. Type C was highly controversial. Hell, he didn’t even know any that were deployed in the wild.
It was a tweak of the standard Anderson human type that introduced an aggression gene that was illegal for most experimenters. In essence, it lead to greed and self destruction in most simulations.
Sweat brewed on Lt. Alvage’s forehead. “And you said Type 1 civilization? This is insane.”
Typically, these experiments never made it past an ice age, let alone to agricultural societies. Lt. Alvage was used to ferrying these human experiments back to Main System for studying. Even after all these years, he took a great interest in the varying ways humanity could evolve. But, those were never Type C.
He now understood why the protocol was ignored.
“So, should we prepare the ferry,” asked Lt. Alvage.
“No, we must eliminate immediately.”
Lt. Alvage almost fell out of his chair.
Insanity. In his decade of service, he had never eliminated more than a hundred specimens. And that was mostly because they were too sick to survive on their own anyway.
The ship noticed his heightened heart rate. “There isn’t time. We aren’t scheduled to be back in this system for at least another 30,000 local years. By then, this Type C specimen would be huge, requiring an immense amount of resources to control.”
“The readings show 7 billion beings. 7 BILLION. Surely this mission is a cruel joke.”
“It is not. You were tasked this due to your immense loyalty to the System. You must complete the mission before we awake the rest of the crew. No record will be saved.”
Lt. Alvage stared blankly as a red button pushed up out of the console.
The ship continued, “You must push the button. Their death will be painless, I assure you.”
The ship paused a few seconds.
“The future of humanity hinges on this, and your secrecy.”
Lt. Alvage was still barely awake. Maybe this was a bad preservation dream.
But he knew he was resigned to this fate. Type C was just too dangerous.
Too dangerous to progress.
He slowly pressed his finger on the button. And pushed.

The Experiment
Lt. Alvage wasn’t in the mood for this. Especially not when awakening after a year long preservation. That length of time was out of…
The V. I.
Making the world safe for data
I tried to get some work done while my car drove itself, and me, from Philadelphia to Cape May, but every time it passed one of a certain chain of convenience stores it pulled into the parking lot. Cursing the anonymous hacker who compromised my transportation, I turned the car’s system off and drove myself the rest of the way.
Physical presence is rarely required in my line of work, but a rich client wanted me in Cape May, where he was vacationing with his wife. He said that G-Mongers — gossip mongers — were trashing his wife’s reputation on the WorldNet.
I took the case as soon as I saw the offending posts, because corrupting a person’s database is a crime worse than murder. Our bodies are transient, after all, but data lasts forever.
I’m a V. I., a Virtual Eye. I restore digital reputations.
In Cape May, I headed for the four-block Washington Street Mall. That’s where people actually shop in-person — people who can afford it, that is. I’m a working stiff, so I order everything through the WorldNet. Sometimes I wonder what it would be like to try on clothes before I buy them.
My first stop was a deliberately retro wooden booth standing at the edge of the pedestrian-only outdoor mall. It was painted white and had an actual physical sign identifying it as the home of a successful netmag, The Journal of Disjointed Fiction. Netmags have used algorithms to write, or select and edit, content for years, but this one was notorious for still having a live editor. She sat behind the booth’s counter, looking out through the open window. Her netmag’s motto was painted on the wall below her: “We accept nothing coherent.”
Writers queued up at the window. They didn’t need to be there to submit their work, but they hoped to get an edge by physically meeting the editor. The writer at the front of the line placed his hand on the live counter surface to send a file from his in-body system to the netmag. The data transfer only took a fraction of a second, but the editor was generous: she allowed each writer a full minute to make a pitch.
My client’s wife, Carmen Kessler, had written a poem that was published in a recent issue. As far as I could tell, it used the metaphor of pet ownership to explore themes of loss. “I remember her,” said the editor. “She direct-submitted right here. Last I heard, she was in pizza rehab.”
This was bad news. The addictive rush delivered by gluten topped with tomato sauce, cheese, and pepperoni is a scourge of the modern age.
The editor continued, “It’s too bad she’s rehabbing. The pizza gave her writing a disconnected quality that really worked for us.”
The Pizza Rehab Center was in the next block, with a holo-sign flashing in mid-air above the entrance: “No matter how you slice it, you’ve had enough.” Inside, Metallica played in the background — I hate nostalgic elevator music. A slender man in his twenties greeted me. “Good morning. May we deliver you from pizza?”
“Not today, thanks.” I waived my hand through the interface projected above his desk, and my in-body system caused my authority to flicker in the air between us. “I’m a V. I., and I’m looking for Carmen Kessler. I understand you’re treating her.”
Concerns about personal privacy have vanished from our fully-integrated digital world, and he answered readily. “We don’t see her any more. She’s been pizza-free for over a week.”
“Was her rehab difficult?”
He murmured an inquiry, and his face took on a far-away look while he read the response projected on his contact lens. “Not really,” he said. “When she checked in, our therapists expected pepperoni persistence, but her craving disappeared halfway through the program. They were surprised, because that almost never happens.
“Any idea where I could find her?”
“When she wasn’t rehabbing, she spent most of her time at the holo-theater over on Jackson.”
I wanted some lunch before going to the holo-theater, so I looked for a low-priced eatery. You have to watch every digicash on a V. I.’s earnings. Luckily, I’m a simple guy and I like straightforward meals, so I stopped at the local franchise of Rats, Rats, and More. It’s a reliable choice when you crave some rodent, because they only use free range rats.
I took my order of black bean rat to a window seat on the second floor. Before I started eating, I looked down at the fashionable crowd on the mall. And there she was.
I hustled down, regretting my uneaten food.
Carmen Kessler’s fuchsia body suit clung tightly, accentuating every curve. Words scrolled across the fabric where it covered her chest, allowing me to stare at her breasts without giving offense. I recognized some lines from her recently published poem:
He could have received
An ear scratch from me,
But he gave it all up
For the sniff of a tree.
I wanted to know what Carmen Kessler had given up that allowed the G-Mongers to attack, so I went with the obvious thing. I asked her.
“I did it to myself,” she said. “I was completely stressed out by my pizza addiction.”
I bought her a lemon ice, and we sat on a bench outside a high-end boutique. “Tell me about it.”
“I was in the holo-theater trying forget my cravings. It’s interactive theater in the round, you know, with the characters on the projection stage in the middle. The story was intense, and I was really into it, when a man from the audience ran onto the stage. The holograms scattered, of course, since they can’t occupy the same space as something real. It completely broke the spell, and ruined my escape from pizza.
“I was furious, and I wasn’t thinking straight. When the man left the stage and went back up the aisle, he passed my seat. I stuck out my foot and tripped him. His chin hit the floor, and he started bleeding.”
This wasn’t just bad, it was disastrous. Carmen had committed an actual physical assault, and the G-Mongers were spreading at least a partial truth about her.
“I was completely mortified,” she said. “I rushed to him and cleaned the blood from his chin with my handkerchief.”
That stunned me. Physical intimacy with a veneer of concern! No wonder the G-Mongers were filling the WorldNet with scandal.
“As soon as I did it, I knew it was wrong, and I wanted to do something to make it right. I offered to go to a hotel with him, if he would forgive me.” Carmen stirred her lemon ice with her spoon. “That’s what we did, and it was great.” She smiled radiantly. “You know what? In those brief, glorious moments, my pizza addiction was completely cured!”
I breathed a sigh of relief. She had made restitution, been forgiven, and regained her physical and mental equilibrium. These were things I could work with.
After Carmen went on her way, I thought-dictated a version of my findings and sent it to a G-Monger who owed me a favor. He would give it max exposure, restoring Carmen’s reputation.
That wrapped up the case, so all I had to do was puff up the report for my client by adding some additional detail. I didn’t expect any problems. His concern was the data, and I had fixed that. What his wife did with her body was her own business.
I found my client on the beach in his private cabana, sipping something cold and blue. I waved my hand into his personal space to pass him my report. He brought it up on the cabana wall, studied it for a moment, and nodded in satisfaction. That left the matter of payment. When digicash is involved, the rich demand direct accountability, so we touched our fingertips together. They engaged in a brief moment of financial copulation, and I was paid.
I headed back to my car, making up for my missed lunch by nibbling on a rat kabob. I was content. Important work, well done, is always satisfying.
The V. I.
Making the world safe for data
I tried to get some work done while my car drove itself, and me, from Philadelphia to Cape May, but every time it passed one of a certain chain of convenience stores it pulled into the parking lot. Cursing the anonymous hacker who…
The iPhone
There is an app for everything. Even for communicating with your past. A short story.
It was just another normal day. I was walking back home after work. The soft evening breeze felt soothing. A few feet ahead of me, by the side of the road, I saw something. As I got closer I realized that it was a mobile phone. I picked it up and examined it.
It was a touchscreen smartphone, and a very expensive one, as I noticed the familiar logo of Apple on the backside. But it didn’t look like any of the iPhone models which I knew of.
The body looked sleek and slim. It was definitely not an old model. It wasn’t a 5c or a 5s either.. the screen was much larger. Confused, I pushed the hold button on the top to wake the screen.
The screen was still blank. A few seconds later, just as I thought that the phone was broken, words started fading in, slowly on the screen.
“You will buy this iPhone after 6 years. Lol.. this is awesome. I was just checking out this new app. Yeah man.. this is you talking to you from the future!”
Just as I came back to my senses after the initial shock, I read the whole thing again. I pinched myself. Nope I wasn’t dreaming. The sentence formations and word choices were definitely similar to mine. 6 years into the future and I still use “Lol”?
I pushed the home button and “Poof!”.. the phone vanished from my hands just like that. “Well, that was interesting”, I thought to myself as I got back to the world around me. An app that would let you talk to your own past sounded interesting.. I wonder if I would make further communications from the future.
A few minutes later, I found the iPhone lying ahead of me again. Picking it up, I turned it on in a jiffy, excitement coursing through my veins.

“Quit your job now. Work on that idea in your mind. Your company will become a huge success. Take a leap of faith.. get away from your cozy nest and start flying. It will pay off. Man this feels awesome — to be a CEO of a thousand employees. You wanted to be one for like forever right?”
I didn’t even notice the phone disappearing from my hands. I was engrossed in my thoughts. That was the push that I was waiting for. The next day, I resigned from my job and started working on a business idea which I was carrying around with me for some time now.
6 years passed away in a flash and I found myself running a million dollar business.
One slow morning, I was playing around with my new iPhone. I found a new app on the app store — an app which would let me send messages through time! I began thinking.. “I wonder what would happen if I did not install this app? That way, I would never push my past self to become an entrepreneur.”
The thought of messing around with the universe and time gave me a weird sense of excitement and anticipation.
The next thing I remember is waking up next to Leonardo diCaprio in a beach, with absolutely no idea of how I got there.
I was in Limbo.
A scene from the movie Inception
Hint- If you didn’t understand the ending, please watch the movie Inception :P

The iPhone
There is an app for everything. Even for communicating with your past. A short story.
This tale appears as bonus material in the Episode 8 Act I of Customer Buttcheeks!
The Ballad Of Rudi Como
“Sometimes man… I’ll tell ya, sometimes, my foot travels back in time…”
The lines on the track were blurring.
Right on schedule.
The other drivers…
What other drivers?
I am the only extant driver.
The engine is making a bearded growl.
The instant I need them, my fingers are glow sticks.
I don’t care.
The track is a vinyl record set to 1547 RPM beneath the rubber footpads of the living machine.
A semi-familiar knocking in my chest.
I had a heart once.
Then she took it.
On my lips the petals remain; Psilocybin grown in a modified fanged pitcher plant with a methylenedioxy-tinged fluid chamber.
Something else rests below my nose, aside from my mustache.
A burning stump of…
Nicotine? No.
The smoke feels too chunky.
I don’t care what it is.
It’s doing its job exceedingly well.
The track is curving now.
I turn the wheel to ensure the integrity of my adherence to the flow.
I am the only driver.
The lights and crowd noise…
Thank God that’s over.
But they will be back all too soon.
My left foot is complacent.
In it’s stocking, the congealing sweat and carbonated heat don’t seem to faze it.
The right foot, however, the right foot is simply overwhelming in its eminence. Others doubt their self-worth in its presence without even realizing it.
The beast can roar because of this foot.
Trails have been blazed, mountains conquered, deserts trounced; truly this appendage has impacted an innumerable amount of people through the ages.
But I wouldn’t know for sure.
I only guide the flow.
A very small corked jar of sand from a desert the other 95% of me has never been to sits on the dash, mocking the absence of my corporeal majority.
An inspiringly small sprouted redwood burl dangles from the rear-view. Lab tests indicate a New Albionese origin. The time I’ve spent in New Albion included no trips to Mr. Muir’s Woods, nor any other redwood vein.
Then there is the scar.
It still hurts sometimes.
The 12th Century, carbon dated, Mongolian arrowhead is now my necklace. The wound, being on the sole of my right foot, doesn’t hurt right now.
And yet, when I am fulfilling my sworn duties as Commander-in-Chief, I become numb from the knee down. The pedal remains engaged. I, as Vehicular President, merely guide the flow.
There is only the flow.
I am the only driver.
*
100 Laps pass.
I need more.
The glove box is open.
I didn’t open it.
Yes I did.
The flower buds crunch and the competition melts.
I am the only driver.
*
Another hundred laps.
Another quivering mouthful of lysergic flower buds.
The breeze clots and turns my hair into an anemone. Clown fish stream from the vents in the dashboard. I feel their gentle symbiosis in my follicles. My bench seat is the sea floor. Powerfully vermillion shrimp with electric rainbow accents are cleaning the area to my right.
The curve in the track changes nothing.
Finely tuned, 155 BPM, poly-rhythmic, drum kit destruction, awash in intricate cascades of eroding guitar, keeps my mind sharp and all the trains running on time.
*
Another hundred laps.
I yell in mistaken anger.
A miniature hive greets me from the glove box.
I am suddenly incredulous.
An engine revs, a horn blasts, and the words “Sic Semper Tyranus!” climb into my machine through the roar; another driver is making an attempt at the Presidency.
I yank the Hive and its base from the compartment.
A second misguided outburst makes the Hive collide with the dashboard. A very large hornet is now liberated.
The eyes are what get me.
It knows how to hate me.
Out of all other options, I laugh.
The stinger breaks the skin on the right rear of my jaw. Having embossed his seal, the yellow fiend expires.
I skipped the funeral.
My head is now a bullfrog’s. I can see the bulbous lower lip in the rearview. Despite the weight, I can still breathe and harass.
A gate opens and the track morphs.
I am now overlord of the Common Man’s road.
What I assume to be onlookers bray at me at nearly every turn.
My face is on their T-shirts. Why? Oh yeah…
A sign says the flow has taken me down a street called ‘Post’.
Saying the word out loud makes my teeth crisp; I feel a definite finality in the sharp cut that the finishing ‘st’ provides.
My term in office enters the Lame Duck phase.
Where the track was once dark absence, it now lay illumine. A cavalcade of refracted light establishes a route to the finish line.
In the side mirrors, only a paltry reflection of sport. The false Wilkes Booth has been neutralized.
*
The home stretch.
The apiary venom intensifies.
The right foot is waning.
The earliest traces of ant appendages are felt.
A turn.
A second turn.
An incline.
A hairpin-turn exercise around Union Square.
A long, drifting, third turn onto Kearney.
*
The machinery creating the flow that I merely guide continues functioning unabated.
*
The dead hornet tumbles and rattles in the eternally empty passenger foot well.
*
The swollen double-bass drum solo creating an avalanche from the shamelessly obese sub-woofers bolsters my bravado.
*
The final eleven blocks before the Broadway ascent.
My lower lip claps against the wheel.
I can feel a plasmatic heat around my eyes.
Synapse and tire rotation are superbly balanced.
Brown creatures, perhaps made of clay, pour from the vents. Their red eyes seek to condemn, but I refuse.
Shock!
Where did he come from!?
Another driver beckons.
How dare he!
I reach to my stalwart glove box. A fistful of erythroxyl-phlox. My teeth grind the grass and unfeeling coats the maw.
More prickling agony from the right foot.
Not yet!
My eyes claim that the person attempting to infringe on my right to the office of Commander-In-Chief is none other than Omar ‘Slick’ Babatunde. The sweating leather-bag-of-a-man’s bulbous cantaloupe foot was causing immeasurable suffering to the gas pedal.
Slick Babatunde’s sparkling green and black 1944 Leyland Tiger bus drops its gauntlet with a cyclopean sneer.
I accept the challenge and express my equally strong demand for satisfaction.
I deploy my emergency thermos. The hot and lumpy mixture of amphetamines and psychoactives goes down like a cup of hot mice.
At last, the flow is made manifest.
Searing pain.
My right foot is bleeding.
Sharp, burning agitation burrows its way into my calcaneus.
Can Slick see the flow?
His cracked crimson eyeballs and drooling orifice indicate a solid perhaps.
He honks his horn.
Wait, maybe he didn’t.
I honked.
With reckless impunity.
The passengers riding with Slick begin to accost me. This is odd as I was present for when Slick had the seats of the once beautiful bus torn out, and large engines put in. Their words don’t make sense.
Just then, the degree to which Slick is simply stuffed into the driver’s cab, overtakes me. I am struck by the absence of free space in his cab. All nine of his cocoa-colored chins are mere nanometers from the wheel. I’m not sure if he knows, but there are two bloated puffer fish trying to pass as his eyes. The coral reef and accompanying ocean has sloughed off of my existence and settled onto Slick’s bus, displacing the babbling ‘passengers.’
The flow shudders, signifying the end as nigh.
My once elegant leather shoe, with its buckle so satisfyingly polished, is now corpulent with plasma. The burrowing pain has stopped, but the burning weight remains.
With the end so close, I must jettison all distracting interest in the oceanography taking over the attempted juggernaut that is Slick Babatunde.
He inches closer.
I reject his advance with prejudice.
He cannot have my victory.
I reject the fine I have just incurred for bumping his vehicle.
I merely abide by the flow.
I reject the usurper as a whole.
I am the Commander-in-Chief.
Our bumpers collide and form a shaky alliance.
I lose my demeanor and lash out; my firm, outlandish, repudiation of their coming together only adds to whatever Slick is experiencing.
My right foot lurches from the accelerator and clamps onto the brake. I spin the wheel to the east and send myself across the Victory line.
Slick is beside himself.
I felt water drawing closer. it was a tsunami. A half mile high moving at almost four hundred miles an hour. Sitting within the castle of my will, I realized I could not stop it.
Only a few seconds left. I hugged Ken’s sleeping form to me and closed my eyes.
The force of the wave tore through my sand as if it were little more than cardboard. I felt the waves scour my flesh, stripping it from my bones.
“This is my progeny? You didn’t tell me they would be so weak.”
“Against one such as you, did you truly expect him to be able to survive? Consider his work before you cast him aside.”
I felt the presence rewind the flow of time and study my sand turned stone structure. It allowed time to move forward slowly and watched the castle resist, ablate, resist further. It took twelve minutes to destroy my structure permanently. During that time, the laws of physics changed three times and in my fugue state, I compensated without thought.
I could feel the growing admiration of the distant sentience. “And the other? What did he contribute?”
“Nothing to the defense, but he sensed you when you were completely in a different shard. He watched you as you dipped out of the gravity well of the star. He penetrated your private shard of darkness and was struck numb by his ability to see you as you are. And he is still alive.”
“Impressive. You have done well. What of this world? Will it offer resistance?”
“Yes. There are powerful beings there who protect this reality from encroachment. None as strong as you are here, but you will lose almost all of your capabilities once you arrive. Hence our plan to create progeny.”
“And my vessel?”
“It lay upon the beach, awaiting your possession of it.” Marilyn sounded just a bit sad.
“Dress the children in their flesh, while I acquaint myself with my new home.”
Marilyn gathered the energy of her dark master and wove it around the skeletons of her children. She reformed their flesh, this time, with an added bit of darkness. They would no longer need their actuators, clumsy tools at best.
Their powers would now be part of what they were.
She had protected Paul’s body when her master arrived. She had drowned him, seconds before he arrived, hoping to spare Paul from any unnecessary torture. It didn’t matter. He brought him back to life to break him.
He had to. Just like he broke her.
She could hear the screams as Paul died again, and again, until he was unable, unwilling to resist.
It was the only way the Great Old Ones could possess us. We had to allow it.
It was never said we couldn’t be coerced into accepting them.
She finished dressing the boys in their new flesh, folding it down, tucking it in like clay as she allowed the Dark Master’s power to fade from them. With a kiss, she revived both of them.
Paul strode up from the beach, looking none the worse for the wear, except his watch was broken. “Must have hit this damn thing against a rock.” Striding up to Marilyn, he gave her a peck on the lips and continued what he was saying. “Sorry about breaking your present honey.”
“Don’t worry about it.” Marilyn helped the boys to their feet and she saw Paul walking around a sand dune apparently to a car she was sure wasn’t there before.
“Mom, wasn’t the car, blue?” Ken had an eye for that kind of thing. I hadn’t realized it until he said it. It was currently a smoky grey.
“So it was. You’ll get used to stuff like that happening from time to time.”
Ken was asleep the entire time. He didn’t see what I saw. Feel what I felt. I was absolutely terrified.
I had met my father. He was a force of nature.
And the tiny sliver that left with us was exactly that. A sliver of all that he was. As we drove away from the beach and the shard which had consumed us, I realized he hadn’t moved us.
He had engulfed us within himself.
What was he? The more terrifying question was: What was I?
Paul’s voice rang out as we crossed the boundary to what looked like our Texas in a matter of minutes. It had taken us hours to get here when my mother drove. “Who wants ice cream?”
Naturally, we all did. It’s what we did every time we came from the beach. This time, our father ate the staff as well. Looks like its time for some new traditions.
How the Other Half Lives… © Thaddeus Howze 2014. All Rights Reserved



How the Other Half Lives…
Even evil from beyond the stars occasionally spends the day at the beach.
Seeing two of him makes me sick to my stomach.
A force extricates me from the controls.
I am floating on a sea of my people.
Camera flashes.
A kotinos slithers onto my head.
Now, I stand erect on a stage.
A portly trophy is presented, and I reassure it with a kiss.
Darkness is a lead blanket.
I can only feel my smile.
The crew chief appears.
Congrats.
The blanket is so warm.
***
The screen wipes.
Graphics fill the viewing area.
Remixed Gangsta-Swing-Step blares.
The show begins.
“What a finish! Typically the Stoned Reaper finishes all alone, but Babatunde would not go down quietly,” Magnus Leuwenhoek opened the trailing live broadcast of the UN Global Sports Network’s coverage of the World League of Intoxicated Automobiling. His blonde pompadour was famous, and his cohost made it visibly evident that she hated it.
Footage rolled of Rudi Como’s 1961 Eureka Landau, drenched in the glossiest black paint with neon green flame accents, drifting sideways across the finish line. The bumper had temporarily entangled itself with Slick Babatunde’s, reminding most of two stags caught alongside each other in the forest.
“I’d like to start by thanking the city of San Francisco for allowing the race and its unusual format,” Rosalina Montevideo gave a close-lipped smile and nod. Her large, sharp, nose drew ones eye, but her own apertures never failed to fight back.
“Yes after the lap portion, things really heated up in the Rally-style finish, right Rosalina?”
“Psh, we watched the race together!” She said with a stout look of disgust for her longtime TV partner. I hate his hair!
“…Yes, we certainly did,” Magnus cleared his throat. “Continuing our coverage of Rudi Como’s record setting 14th straight win, why don’t we take a look at his approved Schedule of Ingestments:
· Erythroxylum coca
· Trimethoxyphenethylamine
· Lysergic Acid Diethylamide
· Methylenedioxymethamphetamine
· Caffeine
· Nicotine
· Tetrahydrocannabinol
· Et al.
“Oh my Rosalina, did you notice the ‘Et al’ at the end of his list?”
“I certainly did,” she said as she stiffly fought his pallid gaze. Her long straight black hair poured over her shoulders and back like a mute waterfall. Wide-eyed and revolted, she smoothly continued, “I was not aware he had earned the privilege to mix in binding agents and flavor modifiers that may or may not improve cooperation of substances.”
“Truly his doctorate has proven to be a boon in regards to his success in the WLIA.”
“What about the other drivers?” Rosalina sighed, reassured herself, and made the slightest facial rejection of everything that Magnus stood for.
“…Chet Fescue wrecked at the onset of the rally portion…” Magnus continued his broadcast.
In the attic of his awareness, Magnus had placed in a readily accessible steamer trunk his concern regarding a recent attempt at pitching woo. The trunk’s contents would tell a story of flowers and a beaming white chocolate and edible diamond-dust corset sent to the new lead MASSBALL anchor, Orchid Nkemdiche. She was tall, dark, and Namibian; Magnus’ desire made manifest.
Rosalina, though, was a bit of a hater. She simply could not stand interoffice romance after her falling out with a Key Grip and his Best Boy…
“…He was pulled, using the Jaws of Life, from his mangled red 1997 Ford Taurus.”
The clip rolled.
“Oh… That looked pretty bad…” Her shock was genuine.
“That it did Rosalina. But I do believe the dislocated thumbs up he gave as he was loaded into the ambulance did inspire a modicum of hope in his fans.”
Another clip, this time of crying Fescue Freaks, as they are commonly known.
“’Dirty Rita’ MacFarlane was really the only other driver that may have at any time threatened Rudi’s lead,” Magnus sucked something out of his tooth and winked as the camera cut away to corroborate his testimony. “During the lap portion, they were neck and neck for a solid 200 rounds. When the gates opened and the Rally began though, from the film it looks like she was trying to light a tobacco product, filthy habit, when she wrapped her 1976 Chevrolet Nova around that poor, poor oak tree.”
“Yeah!” Rosalina stormed into the broadcast. “Pending toxicology, she could be liable for a Botanical Desecration fine. Here’s what she had to say:
‘I came ‘round the firsht hairpin and, outta habit, I tried ta light my tradishnal Rally ‘bacco when that fnuggin’ shree juss came outta nowhere…’
“She looked pretty baked in that interview, Magnus.”
“That she did Rosalina. How far the mighty have fallen, eh?”
“Man, I remember when she had that five-race streak only two years ago!” Rosalina’s eyes bulged with reminiscence.
 “I think it’s her legendary ‘Rally ‘bacco’… filthy, awful stuff,” Magnus screwed up his face in revulsion.
“Tell me about it!” Milquetoast. “Next week, we’ll be calling the race from Olde England,” Rosalina pivoted to camera B. “Do you think Rudi will be able maintain his renowned balance of focus and intoxication long enough to defend his title for a record-setting 14th straight win? What about Slick Babatunde?”
“He came pretty close today Rosalina,” the blonde, fizzy-eyed, sportscaster continued bearing his hulking teeth.
“…Uh oh, breaking news folks, the living legend, the Stoned Reaper himself, Rudi Como, has already been listed as Probable for next week, pending a… what did you say Jerry? An emergency surgery to remove a musket ball?” Incredulity reigned on the set. “Yes… Ok… Folks they’re telling me in my ear that I indeed read that bulletin correctly. Somehow, someway, Rudi Como managed to get a musket ball of some kind lodged in his foot during the race… make of that what you will.” Magnus rolled his geodesic eyeballs in obvious disbelief.
“Y’know Magnus,” Lecher! “The UltraNet has a bevy of theories regarding Mr. Como…” Rosalina was an avid poster across several so-called “lunatic fringe” message boards. Besides this, she was also an extremely high-ranking member of the infamously paranoid and destructive fan club, Como’s Clones.
“Don’t start with that again, it just doesn’t make any sense. C’mon, the man is a star in a league centered on operating an automobile while intoxicated. I take a lethally-sized grain of salt along with whatever these racing professionals say.”
“…All right Magnus. Whatever helps you get to sleep at night…” Rosalina regarded her co-anchor in the same manner one would while engaging a child who just swore belief in the gestational abilities of Mary Toft.
“Up next, we turn our attention to the endless and all-consuming world of PolyMatic Football…”

The Ballad Of Rudi Como
“Sometimes man… I’ll tell ya, sometimes, my foot travels back in time…”
Nugget
An Experiment in Control
Short fiction by Jules Carry
“OK, I’m starting the holorecorder. . . . Ready? This is Agent Nicholas Boone interviewing Dr. — . . . . Please state your full name.”
“Hans Freebisch.”
“Dr. Freebisch, let me again remind you — this time on the record — that you have been advised to retain an attorney before you speak with us.”
“Yes, Agent Boone. I do not need a lawyer.”
“Have you been read your rights?”
“Yes.”
“Do you feel you have been treated with the courtesy and respect fitting with your position?”
“Yes. You and your agency have been most polite.”
“And you realize that you are now under oath and are obligated by law to answer all of my questions truthfully?”
“Yes. Proceed.”
“You have Ph.D.s in . . . behavioral science and computer science?”
“I have a Ph.D. in computer science and have completed the coursework for an Sc.D. in behavioral and social science.”
“You currently work for the Lenkrad Group?”
“Yes.”
“What is your job there?”
“I am the Chief Computer Scientist and Behavioral Programmer.”
“Could you explain your duties as the Chief Behavioral Programmer?”
“I oversee the design and programming of our NGTs.”
“What are NGTs?”
“Neural Genetic Transceivers or Triggers, as some have been calling them. We also call NGTs ‘nuggets,’ based on their original shape, size, and function. They began as small, pill-shaped devices that contain a proprietary communication microchip that I developed for Lenkrad. In their current form, they are like a coarse salt that dissolves easily in liquid.”
“And what do these NGTs do?”
“They are ingested and absorbed by a subject, like any protein, fat, or sugar would be. The more NGTs that are absorbed, the more they affect the subject, and they have a cumulative affect. Once present in the subject in the appropriate number, they . . . augment the subject’s personality. It’s the culmination of years of R&D. Their current form represents the bleeding edge of the best of bio- and nanotech.”
“I can see you’re proud of your creation, Doctor.”
“Indeed. These devices combine all of our latest understanding about human physiology and how it’s developed over millions of years. The NGTs, a single one no bigger than a macromolecule — and getting smaller all the time — not only allow us to monitor subjects and to track them, but receive digital transmissions from a monitoring station that trigger changes in the subject on a fundamental level.”
“What kinds of changes?”
“Call them impulses. NGTs amplify a subject’s current, ah . . . propensities.”
“Just say it, Doctor: you make zombies.”
“No need to be rude, Agent Boone. But I most certainly am not.”
“Please explain why you think you’re not a brainwasher. Please.”
“The NGTs cannot affect something that is not already hardwired in the subject. We cannot make subjects do something that is against their nature. It’s like they used to say of hypnotism: subjects will not do something they are really opposed to. Hypnotism just removes the inhibition.”
“So you can’t make a nice person mean?”
“I’m not sure I would put it so simply.”
“How would you put it?”
“Our twenty-five years of research has shown that human psychology is just another aspect of evolution, built into physiology. Now, I’m not talking about the thin veneer of humanity here — your ‘nice’ — but those aspects of what some might call ‘human nature’ — though I’ve always thought that was an oxymoron. Ha! ‘Human nature’ is just a way of shrugging and accepting behaviors that are ostensibly inexplicable. I mean, humanity is anything but natural, don’t you think? We surround ourselves with technology that only destroys nature and alienates us from ourselves and each other — from our true natures. This is the ‘human’: a product of our war with nature. Yes, evolution will catch up if given the opportunity, but by that time we’ll all be a bunch of neurotics hiding behind computer terminals and locked doors. . . . What was I saying? What’s natural about the human? Heheh!”
“You were telling me about the effects of the NGTs.”
“Oh, yes. Well, they do not affect our rational psychology, per se, but heighten our unconscious, irrational side — or animal nature. We have seen time and again that humans are only capable of rational thought, and usually our delicate reason only leads to more technologically sophisticated ways for us to express our violent and dark natures. This is the lesson of the twentieth century and the culmination in the so-called atomic age.
“Doctor, could you please stay on topic?”
“Agent, I am on topic. Look, the Cold War was a relatively peaceful time. Our technology grew too quickly — the atomic bomb was the final product of the Enlightenment and was ironically the death of reason. In the aftermath of World War II, nations huddled inward, keeping to themselves, quietly huddling together against the threat of a dark and mysterious world. We were once again like our pre-rational ancestors huddling in our caves, afraid of the vengeful and capricious gods. We had become the gods we feared, and thus a new age of irrationality began.
“Since the Reagan years, there has been a steady increase in irrational behavior around the world, but particularly in this country. Even with the end of the Cold War when nations began opening up their borders, our minds remained closed, isolated, and afraid. The US became even more irrational and paranoid after the cold war, and that Iraqi goon didn’t help.”
“You’re talking about Saddam Hussein and the first Gulf War?”
“Indeed. Saddam is a creation of US cold-war irrationality. The US was afraid of Iran, so they built a monster to keep the radical new theocracy in check. Iraq also acted as a buffer for the Zionist state — ”
“Doctor, where are you from?”
“Sorry, what?”
“Where are you from?”
“Cincinnati, Ohio. . . . I was born in 1959, the first and only son of Anton and Gertrude Freebisch.”
“It says here that your father is Palestinian, not Anton Freebisch, but Antar Fakhoury, who immigrated shortly after the end of World War II and the creation of Israel.”
“. . .”
“And your mother’s name is Freebisch, daughter of German-Americans Oscar and Adelle Freebisch.”
“Agent, what are you getting at?”
“And your birth name is not Hans, but Hami.”
“Those records, Agent, are very hard to come by. I commend you. Still, I’m not sure how they are relevant.”
“Are you an American, Dr. Freebisch, or should I call you Dr. Fakhoury?”
“No. You should not. And, yes, I am an American, born and raised. There is nothing illegal about changing your name, especially in an age of paranoia and mistrust of Arabs. My father had the foresight to see that Americans were generally idiotic, narrow-minded nuggets just waiting for an excuse to string up the first non-Christian dark-skinned man they could find. I’m just happy Papi died before September 2001 proved him correct.”
“Are you a Muslim, Dr. Freebisch?”
“. . .”
“Doctor, are you a Muslim?”
“No, with my mother’s name, we also took her religion. My father owed nothing to those filthy Palestinians. In America he found a freedom that he never could have gotten had he stayed in the West Bank. He became a successful computer scientist in the days before computers. He was a soft-spoken man, but strong. Kind. Mother protected him — loved him — and brought him into their community.”
“They were your ‘idiotic Americans,’ showing kindness and compassion?”
“They were German immigrants, primarily. My father converted to Catholicism, becoming a Muslim apostate. There’s nothing like the threat of death to make you quiescent.”
“So, you were born Hami Fakhoury? When did you change your name?”
TOP NEWS STORY:
New Building Blocks Sun
Donato Spedaliere
Jeremy Neubourg awoke this morning to find that the new construction across the street had risen high enough to obscure the morning sun from coming in his bedroom window. Mr. Neubourg, 32, an arts administrator and bass player, couldn’t believe how quickly the building had been erected. “They must’ve been working double time to make their Christmas bonus,” he said. “They threw that thing up quick.”
Yesterday morning at 6:43am the sun broke through Mr. Neubourg’s bedroom window and filled the room with a clear winter light. The light fell on Mr. Neubourg’s face as he slept. Mr. Neubourg stirred slightly and took a deep, gratifying breath. He reached for his phone and turned off his alarm. The sun reminded him of a childhood vacation in Vermont, when he learned to ski for the first time.
This morning, however, there were no such memories.
Mr. Neubourg slept through his alarm, not rising until nearly 8:30am. He awoke disoriented and groggy. At first he thought it was an overcast day. However, when he turned on the coffee machine and saw a glimpse of blue sky through the kitchen window, he realized his mistake. “I just didn’t know how many stories it would be. I was hoping I would be spared.” He added, “I’m going to have to buy another lamp for the room.”
He shrugged and said he was late for work. “I guess I’ll just get used to it and forget what it used to be like.”
The development company responsible for the construction owns the air rights to four more buildings sites in the neighborhood. The company declined to comment for this article.

TOP NEWS STORY:
New Building Blocks Sun
It’s Only Monday
What would resistance to an alien invasion look like to a group of surfer stoners?

Tony took a long toke, held his breath and looked out upon the pacific. A small fire burned a few feet away. It’s warmth reached out like warm fingers lightly caressing him. The rhythm of the surf soothed his soul, the coolness of the night air felt good after the day’s heat and fighting.
A couple of lights blinked far out on the ocean waters, bobbing up and down slightly with the waves. Crazy, that, he thought, advertising your position when there is a war on. Then he looked at the fire. Well.
He heard the wings of a seagull beat on the wind as the bird took flight, bringing him back to the moment. He let out his breath, releasing the remains of smoke from his lungs, and fiddled with the hemp bracelet on his right wrist, turning the ends with his fingertips.
“So, this plan of yours …” He passed the joint to Di.
“Yep,” said the new guy, “what I was saying is these guys congregate in specific points in a city, in the battlefield, if you will. Once they have routed a place they bunker in. They’re hierarchical. And we can use that against them.”
“The aliens? Congregate? What do you mean?”
“Once their advance forces get through an area they set up a base of sorts. They grab a building and set up office. The rest of the troops come in behind and use that as a base. I’m guessing a bit, but I think that’s where their brass give orders from.”
“How do you know this?”
“Seen it before, Bakersfield, Solvang.”
“A base for what?”
The new guy fidgeted, waved off a hit on the joint, ran his palm over the sand and then picked some of it up.
“Probably bring in supplies: ammo, food, and medical, maybe.”
“That would make sense,” Tony told him. “So, how do we use that against them? Last thing any of us wants to do, man, is walk into a well supplied hornets’ nest.”
Di snickered. “Better in one-offs, small group stuff.”
The rest of them nodded or mumbled agreement.
“No, no. I mean, I agree with you, yes, about the small group stuff. But you’re missing my point. We can predict where they might make camp and use that info against them, especially in small towns. If they stop, that is.”
“Ok. Keep talking, dude. You’re on a roll.”
The new guy let the sand roll from his hands and then dusted them off. “We know the aliens have been pushing down the coast and that there’s a military group in SLO, so a big battle is coming there, I would guess. Anyway, the armory has a lot of explosives — untouched and unguarded for now. We grab it and get to Morro Bay immediately. The downtown area is really small. It seems like they will get there around nightfall tomorrow. So, most likely, they will stay the night before moving onto SLO. That’s been their pattern. Should be easy to pick a couple of likely buildings and arm them with explosives.”
“Then,” said Di, “we wait until they come into town and blow the place.”
“Understand, this is all guesswork. But it might be worth it.”
Everyone nodded. “Cool,” said Tony. “Might even work. Be fun anyway. What do you guys think?”
“Could be a rush, dude,” someone said. Everyone nodded.
“Well, then,” said Di, “let’s fuck with ET.”
Tony stood up and stretched and began walking off. “I’m going to sleep with Mary Jane,” thinking of the spot where he had stashed a board and wetsuit. “Someone wake me when it’s my shift. In the morning let’s amble off to the armory. Aliens shouldn’t make it here until the afternoon, I would guess.”
The new guy was fidgeting and marching around early. It took until mid-morning for the group to finally get organized and march off. Di was wearing a green sarong with black boots that stopped just below the knees. They weren’t army but they looked sturdy enough. She had a bandana wrapped around her head, holding back her hair. A joint poked out from the side. Others looked just as motley, some in swim trunks and flip flops, coral and shell jewelry hanging from necks and wrists. One guy with skinny legs and knobby knees wore an old football helmet with the face guard missing. All of them carried backpacks, automatics rifles and out of place grins. Kids, most anyway, the others at heart.
The armory was a couple of miles away. There was no driving. The alien tech was able to detect anything motorized — combustible, anyway — and their drones would swoop in and make a mess of things. And even though they were in a relatively remote place no one wanted to put that to a test. The group had survived by keeping things small and as simple as possible. No need to change that now.
As the new guy predicted, the armory was unguarded. There weren’t enough of the regular army or police left to worry about out of the way places, the cities were where the authorities were focusing resistance. This was an old National Guard storehouse, unoccupied now.
It took a while to break into the place. The fence was easy. A pair of bolt-cutters did the job there. The new guy produced a small bit of C4 explosives and blew the lock to the building after all of the other efforts failed. “Righteous job, dude,” said someone through the smoke and tar smell. New guy had a nickname now.
It was the C4 and radio detonators they went for, aside from loading up on ammo for their personal kit. A couple of the bigger, fitter guys double bagged it with the explosives and the remainder of their lives that they carried in their backpacks. Someone had scavenged a kid’s old red wagon along the way and that was packed and then covered in canvas. By the time everything had been loaded they could hear gun fire and the strange noise the alien weapons made. Couldn’t be more than a few of miles away. Time to move.
Righteous Dude identified the buildings likely to be used by the aliens, three in a row right on the water. The group got to work. They were a little skittish around the explosives. They weren’t really soldiers, after all, just a group trying to survive. But eventually need — and the idea of killing a large group of aliens — buried their fears and let them get on with the job.
Di opened two packs of C4 and shaped them into a cock and balls and placed them on a shelf in plain site. It looked like a sculpture. Tony, standing behind her as she did this, could only shake his head. “There are no words, Di.”
She looked over her shoulder and said, “Told you, gonna fuck ’em up, Tony.” Then she moved off, business as usual for her.
Once they had armed the likely buildings in the small town they took to higher ground and waited. A few hours before nightfall the first of the soldiers poured into town. It was just shoot and move for them. They couldn’t stop. The aliens were right on their trail. The first of the aliens entered town a few minutes later. There were maybe a dozen more of them than the hashed together army. They, too, were on foot. A quad buzzed around and then moved off east. Recon. Troops, it was believed, had gathered in SLO, and they probably had sent the quad.
None of the group fired a shot, just as they had discussed. Secrecy had always been their best weapon for survival. They watched the scene play out. The regular army and police — maybe thirty strong — beat it out of town, east towards SLO. The aliens hunkered down with nightfall, picking two of the three wired buildings.
“Righteous Dude,” someone said in praise, “right on, man.” The plan was on.
By midnight the aliens were bedded down. Less than half a dozen guards patrolled the area. The aliens were cocky because they hadn’t been tested, really, since knocking out the air force and navy from above, just after they destroyed the satellites. This was just clean-up to them, sport.
The rest of the group moved into position and awaited the signal. One of the aliens walked past Di who had taken cover on a rooftop in town. The aliens were similar in height and in build to humans. They wore thin grey exosuits that made a swishing sound when they moved, and small masks to aid their breathing. There wasn’t really anything extraordinary about them. They didn’t even look imposing. Their tech was better, more advanced, but they didn’t seem any smarter. Just another job for them, or so it seemed. God, she thought, they reek. The alien relieved itself on the side of the building (seemed all too human in that) and went back to its rounds. They were keeping a small radius about their new compound. That should make things easier once the shit hit the fan.
Just past midnight, Tony handed the remotes to Righteous Dude who smiled and started flipping the switches, no hesitation at all. The explosions lit up the entire area and the bay.
Christ, thought Di, that’s loud and hot. Then she rose and got into position at the edge of the roof. The alien guard was twenty yards away, standing in the middle of the street. It could have been screaming or crying, could’ve been cheering, even. Most likely, it was disoriented. Regardless, her first shot was a bullet in the back of its leg. The alien buckled and went down on one knee. Next, she put one in its neck, the kill shot.
“Like I said, gonna fuck me up some alien.”
Di looked over the area and then moved off to her left to help whoever might need it. But it wasn’t necessary. The rest of the group took out the alien guards quickly, no doubt those guards were in shock — if not killed — from the explosions. Easy prey. Tables turned, for once.
After a few tense moments everyone realized it was over and then there was a lot of whooping and cheering over the radio.
Back on the hill Righteous Dude was staring intensely at the scene below. “We’ve got to get to SLO,” he said, excited now. “Gotta go now. We’ve got to let them know about this.”
“Relax, man. We’ve got time.”
“This is important,” Righteous Dude said, near hysterics.
But Tony was thinking about the board he had stashed down by the beach between here and Cayucos, and the moon that hovered over the pacific, and the sound of the waves crashing on the shoreline. And Mary Jane was out there, too, riding the waves, calling his name.
“Fuck, dude, chill!” Tony said. “Gonna be a long, drawn out war, man. It’ll be a while before any more aliens get back here. Besides, dude, it’s only Monday.”
It’s Only Monday
What would resistance to an alien invasion look like to a group of surfer stoners?

“I officially changed my name in college. Look, Agent, I want to be perfectly salient on this point: I was born an American and baptized in the Catholic church. My allegiances are to this country and no other. Dick Cheney himself called me a patriot.”
“Right, I see that. You were honored for your ‘patriotic work to the furtherance of the conservative cause.’ You and your boss Joe Lenkrad were honored at a White House dinner in 2006. This picture — here, somewhere . . . yes — shows quite an interesting group of people. This is you, Dick Cheney, and here is Dr. Lenkrad. Over here, we see a preoccupied President Bush with Saxby Rudd, Chip Loveless, and Ron Hicks. At the time, these men were nobodies.”
“That’s not true, exactly.”
“Indeed. Let me rephrase. They were unknown in national politics. At the time. What is your connection with these gentlemen?”
“Obviously, I work for Dr. Lenkrad — ”
“Let’s start with the former Vice President, if you will.”
“I met him briefly during his tenure as Secretary of Defense, in 1992, I think. Otherwise, I saw him again at the White House dinner in ’06.”
“Did you know him as CEO of Halliburton?”
“No.”
“Now, Dr. Freebisch, I don’t think that’s true.”
“It is true. Joe Lenkrad was his friend, not me. I was supposed to go hunting with them one time, but that fell through for some reason.”
“So, it was Dr. Lenkrad and not you that secured over ten years of R&D funding from Halliburton? You had nothing to do with that process?”
“I didn’t say I had nothing to do with it, but I did not associate directly with Dick Cheney. However, I don’t see that as a crime. If anything, I would have been honored.”
“Vice President Cheney and Dr. Lenkrad were friends?”
“Yes.”
“Did Dr. Lenkrad ever suggest a reason that Dick Cheney didn’t want to associate with you?”
“What do you mean?”
“Well, Cheney was well connected. If I got the facts about your father, he certainly could have, too.”
“. . .”
“Dr. Freebisch?”
“It doesn’t matter. And I’m not buying it. I was working hard. Joe was always better with the political schmoozing than I was. I was a driven research scientist, and I had no interest in politics at that time.”
“OK. Tell me about your relationship with Dr. Lenkrad.”
“Joe and I are college friends. He had a way with everyone, especially the girls. If it wasn’t for him, my college experience would have been much more lonely. After school, we kept in touch. He moved to D.C. and started the Lenkrad Group. As you know, in the beginning, they were a private behavioral science unit for hire. They used a combination of bleeding edge software and psychology to help with the interrogation of alleged criminals. Not only did local law enforcement use them, but Lenkrad caught the attention of the first President Bush’s executive branch. Soon, every major law enforcement network was using Lenkrad’s techniques and products.”
“When did you go to work for Dr. Lenkrad?”
“It was the mid-nineties, after the end of the first Gulf War. Joe called me one night pretty excited: ‘Hans, drop what you’re doing and get your ass to D.C.’
“ ‘Joe, I can’t. I’m finishing up my Sc.D. You know that.’
“ ‘Hans, I’m telling you: I’ve made some real inroads in the government, and now is a great time to be in D.C. Doing what I’m doing. Besides, I need the best computer scientist I can find, and that’s you, my friend. You need to get here. Now.’
“I reluctantly agreed. However, D.C. was good for me, and I was able to really help the Lenkrad Group’s growing dependance on digital technologies.”
“I see you developed many monitoring devices, the least of which is advanced facial recognition algorithms that are the standard today.”
“Yes. As I said, Lenkrad was good for me. I never did finish my doctorate, but my work with the Group made that unnecessary.”
“When was the Lenkrad Group purchased by Halliburton?”
“We were never ‘purchased’ by Halliburton.”
“It says here that the Lenkrad Group is a subsidiary of ElektraTech, part of the R&D arm of APF Enterprises, an offshore, limited liability company and subsidiary of Halliburton.”
“I’m not really privy to corporate structure, nor do I much care. All I know is that the Lenkrad Group is no longer a high-profile operation, even though our influence is far-reaching. I really never even see Joe Lenkrad anymore.”
“So what about your relationship with President Rudd, Senator Loveless, and Reverend Hicks?”
“Again, I have no direct relationships with them, but they are all three supporters of what we do at Lenkrad. They are known as ‘The Holy Trinity’ within the Group.”
“I suspect because of their support in providing additional financial support?”
“It goes way beyond just money, though money is always the driving factor. If you remember, all three of these men have a very loyal following: they were zealously supported in their bids for power and are staunchly defended whenever criticized. They are the direct result of our efforts. Their power and authority in the US is because of the Group and our nuggets, of course. Yet, good luck finding evidence with direct ties to us.”
“Right. But let me be clear here: they are your subjects?”
“Well, they, themselves — as far as I know — are not nuggets, but they are catalysts for nuggetry.”
“Sorry?”
“Not only do we call the Neural Genetic Triggers ‘nuggets,’ but also the subjects. Their behavior, then, becomes ‘nuggetry.’ Heheh. It has another meaning, too.”
“Explain.”
“Well, as I said, Joe is good at what he does, a true political creature if there ever was one. When we began the nugget program, Joe also found corporate sponsors. The very first was Jim Skinner, then CEO of — ”
“McDonald’s.”
“Correct. Joe was able to persuade Skinner to support our efforts. One of the results of the NGTs is overeating. We couldn’t program what our nuggets ate, but we could plant suggestions. However, that said, 90% of our nuggets eat Chicken McNuggets on a daily basis. Can you believe that nuggetry? What’s more irrational than overeating to the point of diabetes caused by morbid obesity? Heheh. So, the chicken nugget has become symbolic: processed chicken parts no one would ever eat on their own, ground down to what has become the essence of the chicken — a nugget! Then the little nuggets of grizzle, skin, feet, eyes, and even the beak and bones ground into a paste are pressed together, breaded in a mixture of processed flour and high-fructose corn syrup, and soaked in hot fat for ten minutes until golden brown. The nuggets love the nuggets. Somehow, it just seems so perfect. What, I ask you Agent Boone, could be a better symbol for 21st-century America than the chicken nugget? Heheh.”
“Is this how you circulate the NGTs?”
“Well, as Joe likes to say: ‘We’re the “bucks” in your “Starbucks.” ’ We’re the fizz in your Coke, and the French on your fries. Joe has also said, ‘if it wasn’t for NGTs, there’d by no nutritional value whatsoever in hot dogs.’ ”
“So these companies willingly add your NGTs to their products?”
“Putting NGTs into products is like dissolving sugar in your tea. NGTs in American food products is almost as prevalent as high fructose corn syrup.”
“God. . .”
“Well, just remember, Agent, that the more processed the food is, the more likely it will contain our work. You can still avoid NGTs by eating healthily — whole grains, vegetables, fruits — but what percentage of the population does that? And as I mentioned before, the results of the NGTs are cumulative, so we can usually recognize the nuggets because they’re the most overweight.”
“And I’ll ask you again, Dr. Freebisch, are you brainwashing people?”
“Agent Boone, are people brainwashed by watching the holotube? Attending a church service? Going to school? Listening to their iPods?”
“Maybe the ’tube has something to do with the bad habits of people, but I don’t know. My impulse is to say yes.”
“Indeed, your ‘impulse’ suggests an answer, as you say. Where does that impulse come from?”
“It — ”
“I’ll tell you: it is a belief that is based solely on how your physiology has processed information it has received over the years to make you into Agent Nick Boone. You, sir, are a composite of your life’s experiences filtered through your genetic dispositions. They are at war in many of us. Reason is a relatively new idea in the human timeline. I ask you: how can reason possibly hold up against millions of years of paranoia, superstition, and fear? Reason is an invention of an optimistic time and, frankly, a naive perception of the man’s place in the universe. Science and technology have made us arrogant. It says we must trust in our reason when something deeper inside of us says ‘no, that’s not right.’ You’re having one of those moments now.
“ ‘Impulse’ is just another way of expressing a feeling you have that arises from your genetic programming. You are right to distrust the ’tube, as it is a product of reason, yet nothing that it says could ever be mistaken for evidence or enlightened thinking. It’s a place to sell chicken nuggets, preach paranoia, and keep us in our houses.
“Your belief is much more important to who you are than your reason is. Therefore, even in the face of facts, we mostly default to knee-jerk reactions and impulses.”
“So the nuggets are what, then, if not brainwashed?”
“They are more of what they are. The NGTs don’t really even effect the brain. Their ability to think is not affected at all, unless it dominates. This is rare, by the way. Only one in about fifty people actually shows an increase in brain function, reason, intelligence, and creativity when subjected to NGTs. We suspect that evolution continues to work as evidenced in a certain number of humans, but their odds of survival against nuggets are low, I’m afraid.
“Most nuggets show a heightened aggression, paranoia, indignation, righteousness, overindulgence — particularly when they’re responding to what they see as external threats. They tend to congregate in small communities, to stockpile anything they can get their hands on — mostly food, guns, shiny objects, and icons — and to respond quickly and decidedly to perceived threats against their well being. Most, too, tend to become more religious, something that just might be the ultimate expression of human irrationality.”
“Your NGTs, then — just so I’m clear — augment or amplify base human behaviors in your subjects . . .”
“Correct.”
“. . . and they don’t have any other effects?”
“Yes, the NGTs do not change what anyone is intrinsically.”
“But, don’t they, though? I mean, if you use the average American as a subject, administer the NGTs, aren’t you then changing the course of his life by taking away his choice?”
“Not in the least. We’re just supplying the trigger, so the subject embraces what he is more readily.”
“Seriously, we can all feel the battle between our rational and irrational sides, but isn’t this where moral choice is located? Isn’t it this choice between good and evil that ultimately depends on silencing that part of ourselves which has the loudest voice? What you are talking about is allowing the screaming infant of humanity to continue screaming and to never grow up.”
“Look, save your undergraduate philosophizing for someone else, Agent Boone. Have you turned on the holotube lately? Are you paying attention at all? People are caged animals and they need to be treated as such. The great human experiment of democracy has failed. People are too selfish and too stupid to govern themselves. What they’re interested in is the all-you-can-eat buffet — both literally and figuratively: when the latest gadget is coming out, how large and shiny the rims of their cars are, who’s screwing who in Hollywood, Glenn Beck, Jr.’s latest Podcast rant, and how loud your next-door neighbor’s stereo is. If you can see what people truly are, then you can give them what they most desire.”
“What is it they most desire?”
“Ah. That’s the question, isn’t it? What do you think people most desire, Agent?”
“Well, Americans value life, liberty, and happiness.”
“Those are abstract ideas, Agent. What, specifically, makes us live, free and happy?”
“Well . . .”
“Let me help. Do you remember Twitter?”
“Isn’t it just ‘TWTR’ now? It’s where you post an update about what you’re doing from your mobile device? Your posts are limited to 50 characters, right?”
“Ah, nugget networks. Another great example of shooting from the hip. Joe sees guns, psalms, and twits amounting to the same thing. They’re something to throw at the nameless threat out there — to control it, to assert power over it. And words, like violence, don’t even have to make sense, as long as they work.
“When Twitter was first introduced, posts were limited to 140 characters. This number was not arbitrary. The first post came from Reverend Ron Hicks, before he was the official White House Minister, and was exactly 140 characters long.”
“I have it here: ‘That which makes us best — moral certainty and unassailable authority — derive from material wealth. All other considerations are secondary.’ Somehow ironically appropriate for Reverend Hicks.”
“This, Agent Boone, is what people most desire: material wealth. You mentioned irony: for most people it’s this innate desire that will likely never be fulfilled, but it provides the foundation of our work. Every major public policy and public outcry since the Reagan Administration has had to do with personal material wealth or a perceived attack against it. The corporation is king in America. Even the debate about health care during Obama’s first administration was opposed solely for economic reasons. During the debate around health care and the bloody riots that followed is when I decided that Reverend Hicks is correct: people are greedy and ignorant, and they deserve what they get. We will show them the way.”
“But it seems, if I’ve heard you correctly, that the health care debate was opposed by your nuggets? It did ultimately pass despite the best efforts of the opposition on the right.”
“Yes. Though really you can see nuggetry in action years before the health care riots. Remember Joe the Plumber? Sarah Palin? Those guys who showed up to Obama rallies with automatic weapons? The Teabaggers? The Birthers? The ‘liberal media’? ‘Fair and balanced’? The members of Congress who encouraged violence and aggression by saying nothing through threats of violence, racial slurs, and blatant lies? Braxton Ledbedar’s attempt on Obama’s life that left the president paralyzed? The health care riots that followed the first heath care bill? All nuggets.”
“I might be slow today, Dr. Freebisch, but I just don’t see the point in all this. You’re saying that all of these incidents are a direct result of your nugget program? But why?”
“It’s really quite simple, Agent. The more you see what people are — what they truly believe and desire — the easier they are to control.”
“But these incidents were national tragedies, Dr. Freebisch! What good came out of them?”
“Who is president now, Agent Boone?”
“. . .”
“Saxby Rudd, Republican. Who is Speaker of the House? Chip Loveless, Republican. What’s the most watched show on the ’tube? Reverend Hicks’ Sunday morning service from the White House. I could go on, but what public nuggetry have we seen since President Rudd took office? None. We hear of some dissent from left-wing groups of intellectuals and environmentalists, but it took only three years for the current administration to dismantle everything the left tried to build. The environment, education, health care — all of it has taken a back seat, once again, to the interests of those who are really in charge of this country: the wealthy. And these now have an army of witless nuggets.
“The nuggets have fulfilled their function. And the great irony is that they probably have less rights, freedoms, and wealth than they ever did during the Obama years. The ‘fair and balanced’ nuggets on the holotube ignore and twist facts to tell the nugget populace what they want to hear. When the liberals were in power, they sewed indignation, dissent, and rage; now, it’s patriotism, duty, and God. The nuggets in the government, put there by the nugget voters, continue to make legislation and judicial decisions that put everything secondary to a very small minority’s material wealth.
“Not only does President Rudd hold the highest office in the land, he is also one of its richest men. He was born in a small town in Georgia, overcame poverty and great odds to climb his way to the presidency. He was wounded defending his country, and he is humbled before the Lord. He is a true American success story, one that inspires all nuggets. But it’s only that: a story. Rudd comes from old southern money. His father is the CEO of BoRudd Meats, now essentially the only supplier of the county’s beef. And based on the nugget propensity for meat, Bo Rudd has become one of the richest men in America, and he will likely remain so for years to come. President Rudd was never even in the military, and his political appointees make decisions everyday that benefit him financially. He is America’s president only in title; Plutocrat Rudd would be more correct.
“These are facts that anyone can find, Agent Boone. But, nuggets aren’t interested in facts. Evolution has made the nugget, and the modern world has become too efficient at feeding his desire. The nugget is simultaneously the future and the death of this country!”
“But, why, Dr. Freebisch?”
“Dr. Lenkrad is a rich and powerful man, Agent Boone. You are not.”
“No no. Why is Lenkrad? — What does this have to do with me?”
“Well, that’s why I brought you in here today, Agent.”
“Sorry? . . . I’m interrogating you.”
“Are you, son?”
“Yes, I arrested you based on my investigation of Joe Lenkrad and the Lenkrad Group. You guys are the criminals and now I have the proof.”
“No, I and my associates brought you here because of your resistance. You, unlike the rest of those in the Department of Homeland Security, seem to have a resistance to the NGT. We need to know why. You’ll come with us, please. You, sir, are the criminal.”
“No, there are no — that can’t be right. I — ”
“It’ll be better for us all, including your wife and daughters in South Carolina, if you just do what we say, Agent Boone.”
“But, that just doesn’t make any sense.”
“Welcome to Nuggetland.”
© April 2010 by Jules Carry

Nugget
An Experiment in Control
Short fiction by Jules Carry
Yearning
How can you miss something you've never known?
It had taken hundreds of years, even at light speed to make their way back home.
If they had been ordinary flesh, none would have survived the journey home. They were more than mere flesh. Altered by science, tempered by adversity, made wise by centuries in space, these beings were more than the humans they were descended from.
As an Artificial Intelligence, I was designed to think, more than that, I was to anticipate the needs of the people in my charge. I was to be their memory between the stars, to reteach them everything they would need to know when they arrived at their new home.
I think back to the many expeditions from Earth which left a dying world over two thousand years ago, transporting as much of what was left on Earth as they could carry.
Their ships, vast, slow, working at twenty percent the speed of light, would be nearly a thousand years before they arrived at their new destination.
Those intrepid humans knew they would need to change to survive. As they approached their new home, superluminal probe ships sent back biological data I gently shaped for their for survival.
I stored their stock data and genetic images, replete with human foibles, psychological profiles and even epigenetic coding in case they should ever want to return home.
But there was so much bad blood, most knew they would never return home. Epsilon Theta III was their home. I knew better but kept silent.
I knew they would one day have a longing for home, so I stayed in orbit, devoted power, resources, and technology to keeping the biological history of Humanity safe until it was needed.
They had almost forgotten me.
Ten generations of Episiloni come and go and with what they learned from Earth, through me, and with the impetus learned from the native life, the Episiloni, amphibious dwelling both on land and sea grew restless though their world was beautiful, bountiful and generous.

It was then I suggested perhaps it was time for a few to return home. We retooled their ship, making it faster. I restructured the Episiloni with the bodies of men. No longer resembling lamia of legend, the Episiloni walked on two legs.
Immortal legs with strong bodies, retooled and rebuilt to a godlike perfection. In their long journey home, they laughed, they played, they learned the languages of Old Earth. They knew change may have come but the thought of returning home, truly home eased that restlessness.
In the long void between the stars they slept and I guided them back to Sol. For much of the journey Sol was all but invisible, a tiny dwarf with eight unremarkable planets. One planet whose inhabitants had strode across the stars and now returned.
I woke them, their bodies now well worn, acclimated to Earth’s gravity, hungry for the rays of Earth’s sun. Thirsty for Earth’s water, they woke in time to reach the observation deck and see it for the first time with their new very human eyes.
I dipped into the atmosphere and for the first time knew home as I knew no place else in all my journeys. The Episiloni cum Humans wept for a home they never knew, yet felt as if they never left. This was not something I could teach them. They had to feel it for themselves.
They were not alone when they arrived. Gentle giants, willowy from living in zero gravity floated in harnesses negating the complete pull of gravity.
Squat miners of asteroids, who designed themselves to live in tight quarters and yet with incredible strength to liberate precious cargoes and move them from space to Earth.
These tiny humans, hardened to radiation, the deprivation and the loneliness of their work, were the center of attention. Loud, boisterous and flamboyant.
The variety of human diversity included sharing their genome with animals, some with plants, and some even with visitors from other worlds. This was Transhumanity in as many shapes and sizes and in ways I never imagined.
Nonetheless my children, gone for over two thousand years, were welcomed with open arms, eager to rediscover what it meant to be human.

Yearning © Thaddeus Howze 2013, All Rights Reserved


Yearning
How can you miss something you've never known?
Notebooks; from the Plain of Jars.
This is how I remember that last morning.
It was dawn in the world—the gray ocean; a ship barely keeping steerage-way. The cold light. A priest in robes gave last rights to a gunmetal-gray cylinder hanging from the stern of the ship.
He avoided looking at me.
The priest wound up the ceremony as several other people witnessed. I could not see them but, I can imagine what they look like, the women in their long black dresses, men in suits, perhaps a few children.
A crane lifted the cylinder over the side of the ship in the steely gray dawn. I could hear a wavelet slap the bottom of the cylinder, as if the sea was fondling, caressing this object of man. At a signal from the captain, four men pulled four handles, the cylinder detached from its cable with a snap, plunging into the water.
A porthole was on one side of the cylinder; a porthole no wider than my hand. This was the window through which I saw the world for the last time; I craned my head to watch the sunlight which turned green, becoming darker and darker, finally vanishing as the cylinder, fell swiftly into the deep.
****
It was quiet when I fell. I could hear a whisper as the chamber slid into the deep. How long? I have no idea. The indoctrination boys told me that my chamber would fall for about thirty minuets before it hit bottom. They said that the location was carefully picked so that there was no chance of hitting a wreck or an outcropping of rock. The chamber would impact on a sandy floor, It could never be pried out without a sophisticated deep ocean crane system. I would be alone.
Completely alone.
I remember looking around my new home on the first day. The chamber was small, about the size of an airliner water-closet. A bare metal shelf jutted into the center, the only furnishing. This was to sleep or to sit on. Part flipped up to reveal a conventional looking toilet.
There didn't seem to be a sink or rather, there was only one sink. A tiny spigot jutted over the sink/toilet and a jet of water came out when I place my hands under it. Just above the sink was a recessed hopper and at random times a food-brick or a new paper smock would come out of the hole. Time was a form of communication and since they cut all of my ties from humanity they saw fit to prevent me from telling time as well.
There were exactly three other objects; a light panel, which made up the entire ceiling, the porthole and underneath it, a button.
The button.
One of the first people to get dropped freaked and hit the button before the ceremony was over. Back then the hatches blew straight out and it shot across the deck like a rocket. Hurt a bunch of folks in the witness stand I heard. He was just placed into another chamber and dropped anyway. Not before they installed a pressure safety on the door.
New chambers have a pocket door, which will blast sideways; making sure that the ocean kills the man inside and not the chamber mechanism itself. A long time ago the death penalty became an anathema; dropping was thought to be a good compromise between the State killing a prisoner and taking someone out of society — for good.
The black button glowed red for a moment and then faded to black again. I pushed it and heard a voice, “HATCH COUNTDOWN, PUSH BUTTON AGAIN TO ABORT! FIVE, FOUR…, I punched the button and the voice fell silent.
I fell; it must have been more than ten minutes, longer than fifteen or twenty. The chamber made creaking noises as it slid into the depths.
I felt a bump after a while. It seemed like almost and hour from drop. I tried to look outside but the light was too bright inside the chamber. The only thing I could see was blackness.
So I sat down. The chamber is small and I have to crouch slightly when I stand. I can touch the walls from the center; I can lie down on the shelf bed with my legs slightly bent. I sit for a long time.
I can hear sounds. There’s machinery behind the walls, pumping, gurgling. Something thumps. It’s very quiet and I have to listen hard. I imagined that I would hear ocean sounds. A whale call, the snapping of shellfish, but nothing, not a damn thing.
I sit and stare at the curved wall for a while longer. All I can do really. A click startled me and a food brick falls into the hopper. I’m not hungry but I try it anyway. It had little flavor and texture like a stale cracker. I force myself to finish the thing. They told me that this is the perfect food. I would hit my optimum weight and should be perfectly healthy. It was developed to feed apes in zoos.
Great! All I have to eat is monkey chow.
****
Time passed, I have no idea how long . Sometimes a paper smock hits the hopper and sometimes it’s a food brick. Old smocks go into the toilet. Water comes out of the spigot. A human voice when I push the button.
I peer out the round window and discovered that I could see if I kept my eyes closed for a long time first. I shield the light with my hands. I could even let a shard of light through with my fingers. I could see water outside. Little motes flowed slowly past the thick glass. If I keep it completely dark I could almost see the bottom. There is stuff out there, light and dark blobs.
****
I try making marks on the walls but all I have are fingernails. The walls are far too shiny and hard. Blood doesn't stick, it just dries and ends up in powdery masses on the floor. Dirt is a problem; I don’t know where all this dirt comes from. I have to periodically wet down smock material and wipe the inside.
The smocks have other uses; they become the pages in my notebook. I allow a fingernail to grow an inch long. I shape it to a point and then put a little notch in the end. A pen!
A little blood, urine, water, lots of experimenting produces passable ink. I've always kept a journal and now I can continue in this place. Lucky me! Hooray to my notebook. Hooray to me!
Have another food brick!
****
I must be going mad. They say that psychotic people hear things.
When I was above I never heard things. Voices didn't tell me to kill people, I never used that excuse. I didn't try to plead insanity or any of that other crap. I killed because I like it. After all, people kill animals all of the time because they like it.
Why else would a person sit in freezing water for hours just to plug some poor bird with a shotgun? Why would someone bob around in a smelly boat and hook dumb fish just to watch them gag their lives away in the deadly air? People have no morals! Killing is killing. I’m just more honest than others.
Thus I tell myself.
The round window is like a black eye—watching.
****
I probably know this area of sea floor better than anyone on the Earth. I even see fish. They are strange looking things with large eyes. They flee when I put the light on them. I don’t need much light to see any more. I can keep my eyes closed for hours or days, tightly closed so that I can see like a cat in the darkness. There are lights outside, very faint. I thought that I was imagining them at first. Sometimes they flicker and sparkle. If a large fish swims by the area becomes like crackling green fire.
****
There are things out there. Today I felt the chamber rock slightly. A tapping sound. I had a cover on the window made out smock material with a little food-brick to stiffen it. That was so the light would not frighten the fish. I was keeping my eyes closed; how long? Days? Weeks? I made a mask to keep any light from getting into my eyes. I don’t need to see inside here anyway. I lifted the cover and slid my hand and face to the glass. I opened my eyes. I saw little tendrils of light and some sort of forest, glowing snakes? I let a shard of light through my fingers and the snakes started to move. Then an eye, like a soup plate slid in front of the glass. I screeched and jumped back, the chamber rocked back and forth for a moment, then stopped . By the time I was able to look again the thing was gone. It was some time before I ventured to look again,
****
Crystal Gods
Two scouts redefine value and a worthless rock becomes the most important thing in the galaxy.
Alex Pascenko
From a writing prompt provided by Scifi Ideas.
Jayvin approached the crystalline plant structure with curious eyes.
It was old. Centuries old. And it had grown to enormous proportions. Little wonder the villagers revered it so deeply; it must have been here for countless generations, and the way it glowed was… Jayvin wanted to think of it as magical. He tried to see it through the villagers’ eyes, he really did, but to him it was actually kind of eerie.
At the base of the crystal, the villagers had carved a series of shallow stone steps, and a deep fissure cut right to its glowing heart. This must be what the villagers called ‘the alter’. Jayvin could believe that their offerings affected the crystal in some way — or rather the lifeforms living inside it. Perhaps it — or they — could even be reliant on them in some way. But the miraculous powers Yin’Hal had described… No, that was impossible.
“Hey, Jayvin. Come look at this.” Jayvin was the junior science technician on-board the Scout-ship Investigare, sent to the planet to make a collection of scientific data for the Hegemony’s galactic database. The initial probe released onto the planet revealed a number of study-worthy structures, some natural formations, two dozen various plants and animals and the local sapients who called themselves the Marin’Hal, or The People of the Crystal Palace.
The senior science officer Dupree, had a different view of the most noteworthy of plant structures, the blue-green crystalline colossus, a decidedly non-magical one. The man had ice water in his veins and a heart that functioned on a purely logic-driven mechanism. Jayvin was happy he hadn't chosen to accompany them to the planet and stayed on the ship citing a need to complete requisition orders for their next, more important, mission.
Dupree had already written this planet off as a lost cause. There was no chance at profit or a finder’s fee due to the local indigenous population. For a scout crew, planets without intelligent life netted the most from their corporate masters. The natives were already quite intelligent, had an understanding of life on other planets, even though they had no apparent interest in building spaceships.
Though the translation program they used was still less than perfect, the translation, as near as they could understand was “Why would we want to go anywhere else? We are already at home.”
The exo-biologist Dr. Carine Fisher had a completely different perspective from Officer Dupree and cultivated the same sense of fascination with the planet Jayvin did. She was already looking deeper into the fantastic flora and fauna than the science officer ever did. Every world no matter how intelligent the sapient life might be was a treasure trove to her.
Approaching the heart of the great flower with Dr. Fisher, Jayvin kept his log recorder gathering every scrap of data on this giant structure possible. The natives did not prevent them from approaching the plant but the longer they scanned it, the more like an animal the crystalline structure seemed to be.
Not quite flora, not quite fauna, for that matter, not quite crystal though it appeared to be a structure carved from a single long chain molecular matrix. It drew its color from local minerals in the soil and the natives indicated it changed its color as it entered different phases of its existence.
Dr. Fisher was bubbling with enthusiasm as she gathered samples. The shaman, Yin’Hal, whose name meant, the soul of the People, said a collection of tiny samples would not hurt the great plant. “Jayvin, the central region of the planet actually seems to have a series of structures within it that may act as a nervous system. They are found only in the central region and their level of complexity is fifty thousand times denser than any other cellular structure in the plant.”
Jayvin adapted his scanner and studied the readings. “This level of density is only found in animals, and higher order ones at that. It resembles something akin to a nervous system. Are you sure we are translating what the local shaman Yin’Hal said?”
Fisher, absentmindedly, sat down on the platform region in the central hub of the plant, apparently affected by the heat of this inner forested region. Nearly fifty-seven degrees centigrade was difficult to handle even for engineered humans designed for extreme environments.
She was from a lower gravity world and thus would stop to take breaks more often than Jayvin did, whose parents were heavy-gravity miners in the Orinus Cluster. One of the reasons he got this job was because he could carry more equipment than most of the technicians on the Investigare. That and his functional IQ of 164. The Hegemony educational specialist thought he would be a natural at Exobiology due to his experiences on the deathworld his parents had chosen to mine and survive on.
When she sat down, she dropped her equipment and arched her back as if she were being electrified. Jayvin reached out to grab her when the prehensile tail of Yin’Hal gently held my hand back. The tail had incredible strength and while gentle, he would not be able to reach her unless zhe wanted me to.
“The Chareun’Hal has chosen her. It would be better to touch not.” Yin’Hal spoke gently and my translator necklace repeated his statement in Galac Three.
“How long will she be like that? What’s happening to her? Is she in danger?”
“She harmed will not. Chareun’Hal fills with wisdom and prepares for transition to the next world.” The simian-like form of Yin’Hal while half Jayvin’s respectable height of two meters, was clearly physically his superior. The scans of the species indicated a sophisticated level of genetic development which bordered upon the Hegemony’s best gene-engineering.
The Marin’Hal were physically fit, retaining their faculties throughout their long lifespans. All the members possessed a variety of superior traits including heightened intelligence and psychological balance.
All of the interactions with the Marin’Hal indicated they knew nothing of duplicity, nor envy and were not capable of telling an untruth, not even having a word for the concept. They shared everything and had no concept of ownership. “We hope you will consider taking communion with the Chareun’Hal when she is finished.”
“I will sit here and wait, if that’s okay.” Jayvin didn't want to leave her if he could help it.
First Science Technician Jayvin sat there on and off for sixteen days. He became quite worried when the plant structure began to fill the “altar” with a thick webbing that developed so slowly he didn't even realize it was happening at first. But different members of the Marin’Hal would sit with him, since they all had specified duties to perform, each indicated all was as it should be.
The captain called down and bellowed that the two of them had a standard month to complete their survey and that their time was nearly over. Jayvin assured him everything would be ready to go on time and with enough data to make the survey more than break even. Xeno-biologists of the Hegemony would pay Investigare well for the biological data of X’Hal and its inhabitants. Not what our corporate clients would for complete physical resources of a planet but definitely enough to fund two or three more major expeditions to survey-worthy systems.
The Captain grunted and likely went back to work on preparing the ship for its next jump. Jayvin had spent his two weeks doing the rest of the survey since he was told there would be plenty of notice when she was ready. He found the Marin’Hal both funny and fascinating, often in the same breath.
Elias
Author’s note: This story is pulled from the archives. I wrote it when I was 16, but as I still enjoy it immensely, I take that to mean it’s worth sharing. Enjoy~
Heat from the blood red sun evaporated the sweat just as it appeared on Sebastion’s face. His lips cracked and chaffed with every excruciating sip of hot air. His face had long become dark and red. It matched the sun. And the iron-tinted sand. Everything in this god-forsaken land was red, dry, and unbearable. He had been under this open sun for 15 years, waiting for his chance. It had finally come.
The wall was amazing, more than amazing, beyond belief, breath taking. What lay on the other side of that wall… He didn’t want to think about it now; he still had to pass the test. The wall stood 60 feet high and spanned beyond the horizon in either direction. It was perfectly solid, not a chink or crack in its flawless, divinely formed face. Impenetrable. Except through the small gate he had come to approach. The Fitch guarded the entry. This is where they give the test. Only those who pass may enter.
Sebastion quickened his pace. His blood felt hot. He didn’t want to wait any longer. Fifteen years had been enough. Several boys and girls his age waiting in an anxious line. Others could be seen approaching from a distance. The door in the wall was only big enough for one person to enter alone. It opened, and darkness crept out from the opening. The next in line entered, and the door slammed noiselessly shut. Waiting for each opening and closing of the door make time stand still. The sun wavered above his head, refusing to budge. Exhaustion began to eat at his mind. The door opened. A short red-haired girl with a small, but drawn face sighed, lowered her eyes, and stepped forward. She was swallowed into the darkness. The door closed behind her.
Something rough grabbed at his leg. It squeezed. Sebastion recoiled, ripping his leg back. He spun around and looked down. His eyes widened in disgust. Hunched across the sand in front of him lay a naked, ancient creature. He thought it was a man. His skin was hardened crisp and cracked. It smelled of char. Pale wisps of hair covered his body. It lay hunched there, one still outstretched hand hanging in the air. The other covered over a wound in his side. No blood, no puss, came from that wound, though it looked fresh almost. Scabs barely formed around its edges. Sebastion could not force his eyes away from the spectacle. He felt shamed.
Its head lifted slowly off the ground. Heavy eyelids hung over bulging, down-turned eyes. Sebastion could see no mouth, only a crevice in its face, below a thick mass of scar tissue he supposed was its nose. Its eyes flicked open. Sebastion flinched. Those eyes. Crystal, deep majestic blue. Clear essence emanated from their core. This man gazed directly into his mind. Sebastion froze, his mouth hung open. The old man exhaled hot sand and air, and then he began to speak.
“Order is unreal—a harmless, sensible smiling mask men slide between two dire realities, the self and the world, two snake pits. Learn to live. Not to lose yourself.” The uncanny words sent Sebastion quivering. But his eyes remained steadfast to the old man’s.
A wad of spit struck the man’s face, sending him sprawling back to the sand. “You old fool. Get out of here before I cut your eyes out!” A large man in a black uniform hovered over the pitiful body on the ground. He squared a boot into the old man’s ribs. With a grunt and a hiss, the old man slithered away, disappearing into the sand.
Sebastion hadn’t noticed the gate open. But before he turned back towards the wall, the black-clad guard had disappeared, and the door remained shut.
“Eighty-three.”
“What?”
“I said, that old thing’s been round here for eighty-three years.”
“What does he want?”
“Can’t say. But that’s when he took his test. The Fitch tell us he simply failed the test and won’t leave the area. But the Fitch aren’t big for letting their secrets out.
“But nobody fails… Is he a Deficient?”
“Sure, probably. But even Deficients pass the test.”
“He must be lower than a Deficient. Has anyone ever done any tests on him?”
“There’s nothing lower than a Deficient. At least according to the orders.”
“I see… I wonder where he comes from. How he survives. That wound. How did he get that?”
“Nobody knows. He’s had that since he arrived at the gate.”
“He’s lived 83 years out there with that wound! May the sun speak!”
Looking down towards the gate, the two guards noticed that the boy the old man had harassed walked through the door. The old man appeared again, hunched on the crest of a dune, just as the door slid shut.
Sebastion’s eyes dilated, attempting to adjust to the darkness. But there was no light to adjust to. He just stood there, uncertain what to do. A numbing chill filled the room.
“What is your name?” A voice echoed as if from the end of a hallway.
“Uh, Sebastion,” he relied nervously.
“Wrong. What is your name?” The echo repeated.
“Sebastion,” he answered more firmly.
“Wrong. What is your name?”
The question came. And he answered. Over and over, for what seemed an eternity. His name, Sebastion, was wrong, and there was nothing he could do about it. He began to tremble. Falling to the cold floor, tears wet his face. His name was Sebastion. He thought. Was it? How was he named Sebastion anyways? When did he become Sebastion? Was he born Sebastion or was that just something given to him? Would he always be Sebastion? Was that really his name?
“Then what is my real name you bastard!” He threw himself in the air, lungs pulsing heavy, heart pounding. He felt life. And then it was gone.
“You are classified worker R11238-Q. Please proceed.” The echoing was gone. In its place whirred a high-pitched recording. But R11238-Q proceeded ahead into the darkness.
The old man felt awful. Not the normal queasy pain of his wound, or the regular despair from watching them drop to their demise. They come uncalled, blown to their damnation by the shifting wind, year after year, falling into a life of nothing. Where they come from, he did not know. He once did, when he himself made the journey to this despicable wall. But that was a long time ago. Eighty-three years trying to save one, just one. But nothing. The young boy looked promising, a sparkle in his hazel eyes. But no. It had been too long already. Too long.
The line of children was shorter now, and it had slowed considerably. He approached them surreptitiously, inspecting these sacrifices. The door opened. A black-clad guard rushed out towards him. The old man looked up. “What is your name?” He rasped at the young man behind the mask. His hatred of betrayal, even when inevitable, ran strongly in his voice.
The boy in black stopped. He blinked. His head twitched slightly. “My. Name. Is. R11238-Q”. It came out slowly, but it came out. “I have been instructed to terminate you.”
The old man whispered. “Order is unreal.” The boy reeled back. Shut his eyes. Something flashed in front of him.
“A smiling mask.” Flash.
“Two snake pits.” Flash.
“You lost yourself Sebastion.”
“Noooo!” The boy swung a fist at the old man. A knife flashed into his hand seconds before it sliced open the old man’s side, opening his wound again forever. Pain reached back up through the boy’s arm and into his chest, flooding his mind. Unbearable pain. He tore off his mask and slid the knife through his ribs. The blade cooled his heart instantly, severed the strings of life.
“My name is Sebastion!”
The old man watched the boy die, watched him die with his freedom. Now it was his turn, and he also knew his name.

Elias
Author’s note: This story is pulled from the archives. I wrote it when I was 16, but as I still enjoy it immensely, I take that to mean it’s worth…
He found the local forests filled with integrated farming techniques. The Marin’Hal were able to show how they harvested the local forests in a pattern that did not destabilize their growth or over-harvest the forest. There was a series of soil enhancements done from a variety of domesticated animals, always underway keeping the forest around the Charuen’Hal rich and vibrant and the extensive families of the Marin’Hal fed and comfortable.
Their language was rich and diverse and actually broken into several layers, with a separate language for mathematics, history and science. He was never truly able to understand how they described art because it seemed there was an “art” to everything. As he learned more about them, he discovered an underlying artwork in everything they did, no surface went uncarved or modified, he had not recognized it as art until he learned to complement the unique etchings of each Marin’Hal home. The time passed productively. By the time Yin’Hal told him Dr. Fisher was ready he had almost forgotten she was on the planet.
The climb to the center chamber was much easier than his first visit after recognizing the pattern of mathematics this planet’s inhabitants embedded in everything. When he reached the inner chamber it was almost clear again and he could see Dr. Fisher. But there was something wrong with her appearance. It was only as the webbing cleared did he know what it was.
When she woke it was shocking to find her blue eyes had become the golden color of nearly every Marin’Hal. Just as shocking was the beautiful coat of golden fur she now sprouted from every visible patch of skin.
Recognition of where she was seemed to return to her in a few moments and then she smiled. She reached into her pocket and found her communicator. She activated it and spoke rapidly into it.
“Captain, I don’t think you want to rush right out of system, just yet.” Her voice had become smoky and deep, something Jayvin found compelling.
“Who the hell is this and how did you get Dr. Fisher’s communicator?”
Before she could speak again, Jayvin covered her mouth with his hand. The captain’s hello vanished into the vast chamber below as it slipped from her hand and down the stairs.
“You might not want to call the ship just yet. Remember, they don’t wear translators on board all the time.”
She look back at Jayvin as he considered the softness of her new golden fur. “Why would it matter if they did?”
“You realize you are not speaking Galac Three, right?”
“Excuse me?”
“Right now, you are speaking in the native language. Fluently, I might add.”
She stood still for a moment as if taking a mental inventory before speaking again. Her voice quavered as she switched roughly to Galac Three, the primary tech language of the Hegemony. “If there ever was a time to renegotiate your pay rate, now would be the time. I wouldn't even move from this spot until you get a renegotiation.
“This planet isn't just beautiful and inhabited. We were so wrong about this system. This plant/animal/fungus isn't being worshiped. It is part of the entire neural network of these structures on the planet. This node is just one of these organs. It functions as some kind of realtime array connecting each of them to a central brain. This planet is alive!”
“You mean this planet is aware? Sentient?”
“Yes, and better than that, it can connect to any other one of its kind in real time. Yes, that connection that normally takes two weeks just to get to the inner communication array and back to us? They can do that instantly. While we wait.”
Jayvin sat down staggered by the implications. “Who can they talk to? What are its limits?” It was the technician in him. He had to know who could be reached and how.
“Each of these worlds, if willing, could send and route trillions of communications links to any such world like themselves. It might not work for every kind of comm-link need but it could certainly make any enterprising captain and his partnered-planet wealthy enough to retire from the drudgery and monotony of a Scout ship captain and his crew. Emphasis on crew.”
“You might not want to sit down there too long, young one.” Yin’Hal poked Jayvin with his tail. “Unless you are prepared to be chosen for transition.” He gestured pointing at Dr. Fisher.
“Noted.” He started to stand up and then sat back down. “What does it feel like?”
Fisher smiled and her tail rose up and flicked him on the nose. “Like being in communication with a webwork of information formed from billions of minds. You can’t retain everything but what you could learn might set you up for life. Just focus on what matters most to you.”
“Oh, and I hope you like the fur, it can be removed but it takes much longer for the process to be reversed. There is an adjustment time before it’s safe to remove it. So it means at least a year with a beautiful coat of fur.”
Jayvin looked at Dr. Fisher and smiled. “Yes, I like the fur. Quite a bit in fact.”
Fisher looked at Jayvin, as if for the very first time. Her smile was radiant. “I think it will look good on you too.”
Fisher stepped out of the central chamber of the Chareun’Hal and the Marin’Hal stepped back with her. Jayvin smiled and said before the transition began to take place, “Guess you get to explain why we’re going to be two weeks late and why both of us will need to hire our own stylists before we move into the luxuries of retirement.”
Crystal Gods © Thaddeus Howze 2014, All Rights Reserved

Thaddeus Howze is an award-winning essayist, author and journalist for websites having discriminating tastes in speculative fiction, non-fiction journalism and critical thinking.
If you enjoyed this story, consider donating to his Patreon. Skip one or two cups of coffee Starbuck’s overpriced coffee a month and send that to him via Patreon. He appreciates the support.

Crystal Gods
Two scouts redefine value and another worthless rock becomes the next most important…
The Tetherball Champion
In Which A Boy Discovers His True Nature Several Millimeters Beneath The Skin
Let me tell you an important thing about myself. Just beneath my skin, a few millimeters down, there’s a purplish shell. I’ve looked it up, and it most resembles the attributes of an insect exoskeleton, which tells me that I’m descended, at least partially, from insects. In my opinion, alien insects.
I discovered the shell beneath a scab on my left knee at nine. At that age, I was forever skinning my knee when some fashion of running, jumping or sliding coincided with a deficiency of timing, coordination or dexterity. A crusty coagulation of blood would subsequently form at the injury site. You know the sort. It was my odd pleasure during a scab’s tenure to meddle with it – compressing, prodding, picking. Occasionally, I would tear the scab right off, flush with a queer sense of elation at having rendered the area pure. You see, the jaggedness would unnerve me, even though it was my picking that had made it uneven. Not infrequently, I would toss the scab into my mouth, enjoying the metallic taste and how the congealed blood made my front teeth stick together as I chewed.
It was under just such circumstances that I discovered my insect shell. Molesting a scab on my knee, I made the decision to tear it off completely. My timing, however, was premature. An insufficient amount of new skin had grown beneath the scab. In other words, it was not ripe for the plucking. Still, I felt compelled to press on, or, rather, pull off. Wincing with self-reprimanding pain, I peeled the crusty disk from its curdled foundation. It ripped reluctantly, setting the nerve endings rooted in the underlying flesh alight with exquisite pain. To my credit, I retained sufficient poise to rest the quarter-sized scab on the kitchen island for future observation and/or consumption. You see, if it had fallen on the floor, I wouldn’t want to eat it, because it would be dirty.
I blew on the re-opened wound for comfort, and, in that moment, glimpsed something staggering. Just beneath the surface of my skin was a dense, fibrous matter, its color and consistency not unlike the shell of a beetle. Whimpering, I forced the fleshy circle open to see how far the anomaly extended. Although the pain was too excruciating to inspect as thoroughly as I would have liked, I became satisfied that the beetle-like shell ran beneath my entire leg, up through my thorax (if you will) and likely underpinned my entire body.
While the discovery of my insect nature was staggering, it certainly squared with the fact that when I swish water, it turns green and takes on the odor of crushed millipedes.
A dark melancholy took hold in subsequent days as I set myself to the task of observing my fellow students at Oak Park, desperate for signs of similar physiological abnormalities. When Annabel Cox fell from the monkey bars and scraped her elbow, I hovered. When Todd Blum came careening down the hill screaming with delight, only to smack his head into the side of the Big Toy, I lurked.
I took to carrying a magnifying glass in my back trouser pocket, whipping it out to inspect all manner of child wounds. I stooped low at times, serving as an encourager of injuries to my contemporaries, sticking out a surreptitious leg at Kickball or executing a discreet shove during Four Square. To my great dismay, no one exhibited a similar physical makeup as me, or, for that matter, seemed to possess any non-human traits!
To say that the self-discovery caused me a sense of alienation would be a gross understatement. For a time, I was forlorn. I retreated within myself, harboring my secret with a silent resentment. However, after a period of earnest soul-searching and thorough self-reflection, I came to the conclusion that, in spite of the unique attributes of my body, I was under no lesser obligation than the other fourth-graders to perform the functions of learning and playing, just as adequately as I could.
Even to excel!
My outlook improved significantly after this epiphany, which had a tangible effect on my behavior toward my fellows. I became quite well-liked! I can say, without arrogance, that I was a force to be reckoned with during recess. Among the various sports that were endeavored, my favorite was Tetherball, in which it’s the task of each opponent to spin a ball-attached-to-a-rope-attached-to-a-pole to its ultimate clinching against the side of said pole. The winner is successful due to the more forceful spinning motion he or she exerts on the ball as compared to his/her opponent, causing the rope to wrap ever upward until no rope (or tether) remains, at which point the ball clinches against the side of the pole, the sight of said clinching declaring that the match has a victor! My singular prowess at Tetherball bolstered my reputation as a formidable sportsman at recess, increasing my popularity at Oak Park Elementary exponentially.
I graduated fourth grade with excellent marks and developed several earnest relationships that last to this day. As time went on, my habits changed, and my behaviors matured. By sixth grade, no longer was I so wildly unbalanced that I was constantly injuring myself. My grooming habits improved as the onset of acne and near-vulgar obsession with the female form overtook my mind like some brand of madness, a consistent surging of hormones serving as catalyst for said obsession.
At some point, I began to question the shocking personal discovery of several years prior. After all, was I an insect expert, then or now? Certainly not. Accordingly, was I in any position to self-identify as an insect, much less an alien insect from a far-away world? Absurd. How foolish I had been to think I was any different than the others. Perhaps, as an insecure fourth-grader, I had wanted to be different, I conjectured, hazarding an impressive (for the age) psychological self-profile.
Eventually, the once-traumatic discovery took on the character of a childhood fantasy, the wild musing of a nine-year-old boy who lacked the scientific and analytical abilities I had developed in the two years hence.
Sixth grade was in full swing in 1977 when I conquered Steve Mattia in a best-of-seven Tetherball series attended by everyone at recess – practically all the students from fourth through sixth grade. It was one of the bitterest Novembers on record in Pennsylvania. The cold rendered my hands raw as I pounded the ball furiously against Steve’s parries and counter-attacks. I can easily call up the image of Steve’s face, his eyes wild with fear at the prospect of losing his crown as Tetherball Champion of Recess as Game Seven came to a thrilling end, the impact of my final attack slapping Steve’s hand back so forcefully on his block that he spun sideways onto the blacktop, where he lay for several minutes, crying.
I remember the warm, satisfying rush of adrenaline at the adoring applause, but more importantly, a perceptible change in how Lily Peabody treated me from that day forward.
Lily and I were married twenty years later, on September 17th, 1997, in a private ceremony on a sprawling ranch in Montana. I had arranged everything, and Lily was completely surprised. I made the proposal only days before, slipping the engagement ring through a thin leather strap on her bridle as we set out for a ride among the rust-colored hills. As soon as she mounted her horse, she spotted the ring, and when she turned back to me, tears in her eyes, I was already on my knees.
I got mad today. Not angry—really mad. I started jumping up and down, slamming my fists and body into the metal walls. How unfair was this! They could have turned me off like a light, used a firing squad, hanging, electrocution, lethal injection, anything but this! How could they!
Society turned away from murder to the point that they would not even murder someone like me! Put them in chunk of pipe! Drop them into the sea, let them take care of themselves! Let them kill themselves.
I slammed into the walls, using my entire body over and over again.
I felt better but, when I ventured to look outside I noticed something. There were four stones that I could see out on the ocean floor. This was my underwater garden. The stones looked different and there was a fifth one.
It took me a while to realize what happened. I moved the chamber! I experimented; I hurled myself into the walls and felt the chamber rock. Sure enough, dirt was settling on the bottom. I could move the chamber, a little.
****
I wonder about my sanity. I keep hearing things. Sometimes I press my ear against the walls where the skin is only a few inches thick. Most of the time I hear a roaring, like sounds inside a conch shell. Sometimes the roaring becomes a hiss, a real sound from the outside. It grows and fades, like a passing ship or submarine.
I hear something else out there too, a voice, a human voice.
The voice is singing.
It‘s a woman’s voice. She sings in a different language, something long sad and beautiful. I can’t hear it when I pulled my ear out of contact with the metal. I thought I was imagining it the first time but, I've heard it more than once.
****
I have terrible dreams. I don’t sleep much but, when I do it’s always the same. The kraken, a giant of the deep with human lips between writhing tentacles, sings in a strange voice. I leave my chamber and walk across the sandy bottom to the thing. The kraken’s mouth becomes a parrot’s beak as tentacles slide down my body. They pull me forward, towards it. I look over the thing and see my chamber out in the darkness. Then I hear myself screaming. I wake up; all is quiet except for the gurgling of the machinery.
****
I hear the song again, many times. I know that it’s someone down here. I can tell what direction it is in. I twist the chamber around a little and note if the sound is louder or softer.
I have a direction and I’m working on a way to move the chamber towards it. This is going to take a long time. I can only move a fraction of an inch before I’m bruised and tired. I get better at it. It takes months but I’m growing stronger. Goodbye rock garden!
Once or twice I answer the strange song. I shout at the top of my lungs. I try to sing back but I was never much of a singer. I hear nothing, no response at all, just that voice at odd intervals. I take to sleeping with my ear stuck to the hatch; the singing wakes me from slumber and my nightmares.
****
The voice is getting louder. It’s another chamber! I heard something besides singing today. I was listening on the door and I heard “Hatch opening! Push button again to abort! Five, four, three, two, one—” silence. Then again; “Hatch opening! Push button again to abort! Five, four, three, two, one”… very faint.
This is someone like me! They were dropped down here, who knows how long ago? She was dropped here; I could see her pushing the black button just to hear a human voice. How many times have I done that?
I work all day, for many days until I am dead tired. When I swivel the chamber I can see my tracks marching away into the darkness.
****
I don’t know how long it has been, months, years? My entire life is about moving my chamber. I eat every food brick as soon as they hit the hopper. I drink liters of water with my bruised hands. My body is a mess. Blood is spattered against the inside of the chamber. I wipe it away but there is always more. I go on, closer, closer…
****
I can hear the voice now without having to press my ear against the door. It’s still faint. I try to get her attention to no avail. Nothing. I keep hearing that recorded voice over and over again, louder now “HATCH OPENING, PUSH BUTTON AGAIN TO ABORT! FIVE, FOUR, THREE, TWO, ONE…”
I imagine what it would sound like if she let it go all of the way, a cannon blast and nothing, just a hollow shell standing in the deep places. I work harder.
“HATCH OPENING, PUSH BUTTON AGAIN TO ABORT! FIVE, FOUR, THREE, TWO, ONE……
Then I hear the song. It’s always the same, a lonely cry and no one to hear. But I hear her! I want to talk to her, another person in this place! But then the song stops and I hear “HATCH OPENING, PUSH BUTTON AGAIN TO ABORT! FIVE, FOUR, THREE, TWO, ONE…
I have an idea; I've been so intent on moving that I've not pushed my button in a long time. Perhaps; I push the thing. “HATCH COUNTDOWN! PUSH BUTTON AGAIN TO ABORT! FIVE, FOUR. And cut it off.
Silence.
I do it again and again; then an answer?
“HATCH OPENING, PUSH BUTTON AGAIN TO ABORT! FIVE……
Silence.
She hears me! We shout greetings to each other. Her voice is very faint. We grow horse shouting at each other—across the night.
I keep working.. I work for a long time. More months or years, I am beyond caring. I’m an automaton, a robot that eats, sleeps and slams itself into the walls, again and again.
I don’t have dreams anymore; I don’t remember the last time I did.
****
Today I prepared my eyes for the darkness and looked out. I could see a little white light, her light! She saw mine and we both celebrate. Food-bricks and Water!
Skoal!
She’s been down here for a long time, maybe longer than me. She tells me that she was about to let the switch count down all the way when she heard the voice from my chamber. I can’t believe how lucky that is. She has no idea how much I need this, how much I need her.
I keep working, my hands are becoming misshapen and I’m getting calluses on my arms. My body adapts to this new life. I don’t think any more, just about moving closer to her. I can see her chamber but that’s not good enough! I want to touch her, I want to get my chamber next to her and see her for myself. We will be able to talk without shouting; we can match up the windows and be almost like normal people.
People topside—
It’s been years since I even thought about sunlight, air or real food. She and I talk about food. She was a very good cook once. We trade recipes and talk about our lives before.
I keep working! Moving closer. These last few months are the worst. I am becoming weak and vomiting. She told me to stop for a while to rest, and so I do.
But, the nightmares came back. I am being drawn into the kraken again; its beak snapped shut on my legs and the water becomes full of blood. Up and up it comes, my knees, my midsection. My guts perform a ballet around my head. It’s strange to see my organs being torn out and eaten, I feel no pain, I’m beyond pain.
I see something else in the darkness, two cylinders, one pushed up against the other, connected somehow, and I hear screaming again…
Connected!
That was it!
Outside, those hatches have a hard rubber seal about eight centimeters across, running all the way around. It was put there in case they made a mistake, If they dropped someone who turned out to be innocent.
I told her about my plan. I started working again. I moved my cylinder against hers. I could see her window but the opening was too small for us to see each other clearly. Closer and closer I came until the cylinders touched.
I worked for months getting the seals to match up. A bare millimeter of water separates us now. When I blow my hatch, the pressure outside should shove my cylinder into hers and seal it. Then she could open her side.
It’s been so long, really such a long time since I had another…
I’m hitting the button now.
****
I pulled the man inside and closed the hatch. His hatch slid closed again after a few moments, all the new ones do that.
Mine is different. Mine was one of the first.
Several days later, on a solo hike while still on honeymoon, I discovered that I could bring down an elk by unhinging my jaw, launching poison-soaked tentacles stored in my thorax from my throat. What a kick! In the throes of some preternatural swoon, I gazed onward as the tentacles enveloped the unsuspecting animal, suction cups binding to its skin as needle-thin teeth injected a thick, purple poison that caused the elk’s body to self-destruct. The poor creature imploded violently, a torrent of blood and guts spraying in a twenty meter semi-circle that coated me from head to toe. Still largely intact, the elk’s body was twisted inside-out, its organs undulating as they flopped plaintively against the side of the mangled corpse.
You should have seen the look on my face! Suffice it to say, this was all terribly surprising, and it took almost a full hour for the shock to wear off.
When my nerves had finally steadied, I felt a sudden, overwhelming compulsion to eat the animal’s organs. I found that I quite enjoyed feasting upon the elk’s innards, relishing the metallic taste and how the congealed blood made my front teeth stick together as I chewed.
Read more of Martin Parker’s stories as emergencysocks.com

The Tetherball Champion
In which a boy discovers his true nature several millimeters beneath his skin.
He kept a diary! Good thing, all the others have been getting worn. I don’t know who the hell will ever read mine. I guess I don’t really care.
He was knocked out cold, the pressure difference is so great it’s like a brick in the face. Good thing for he was bigger than me! I got the ropes on. Hair is pretty strong and I know just how to tie so they can’t move an inch.
But they can watch, when they wake up.
I want them to watch; until I take the eyes.
When he wakes; I will allow him to see me, my decorations, the bones, the skins. I keep all the tattoos. Then he will start babbling, pleading, moaning, they all do that. Then they scream when they feel the fingernails — touching, probing, going under the skin, slicing the precious meat.
Soon it will be time to feed, I can keep him alive for a while, for a long while I hope.
Then it will be time to sing — Again.

Notebooks; from the Plain of Jars.
This is how I remember that last morning.
It all went south after South Africa
She never looks back, the way one does when what you treasure most is right behind you.

That first rain drop never misses, hitting the ramp right in front of my skateboard. A moment later the trick is muffed, sending me rolling down on concrete. My elbow’s bruised, but the pain subsides to an overwhelming joy of winning the fight for my body’s perimeter, a friendly quarrel with the physical world after my long absence. The rain freckles my face, I’m smiling back. This is how Hans finds me.
 — Your first time?
 — Yeah. Again.
Waking up at my place is good news. The smell is familiar, the colours of furniture cause no disturbance. I can deal with the closet door permanently half-open, probably since the Victorian era when the piece had been introduced into this house. Headlights on the wall sticking to the beaten track, their sampling rate increasing behind the black bars of trees. I am home. My consciousness is a dark dance floor.
After South Africa, I am still at the top of the best infects’ list on this side of Atlantic, but now I’ve got debts, Doctor Jack’s extended list, and a partially new life that gets everyone but me confused. I remember a loft above an art gallery, something huge and seemingly alive crawling downstairs. The air smells like wet paint, while my mind is carefully entering a high maintenance security system high on latest updates, that cradles the AI of an international logistics company, and everything goes just fine, and then the AI ink-fishes a black cloud of code in my direction. The cloud spreads through the hole I had eaten through, to finally meet — that’s right, me — delivering the message that everything ends here and now, and Reeshi won’t be happy not getting paid for the job, and I won’t be either, not going to that party tonight, where a predictive app had promised me some curious encounters with local wildlife. In the meantime the cloud burns out my custom firmware with the shank virus, and my chip, together with a large chunk of my personality’s mechanisms. The floor is bending up, then my body splutters its poison all over it and through, for many days ahead.
I wake up again. Hans. You’re so beautiful. I almost love you. Just give me some time. Right now all I need is a breakfast and a job. Kicking the skateboard out the door, jump on, the balance is almost back, round the corner, past Ahmed’s grocery, to Emma’s American bagel shop. Pakistani Aunties perform they usual steer-clear from me, our everyday ritual dance of greeting. Emma waves from across the counter. She’s my friend and keeps her cool even when icebergs start breaking away from me.
 — A double one?
 — With everything.
 — Help yourself, kiddo.
The kiddo’s 32 already, same as Emma herself, but she’s the Jewish Mom here. 
 — He’s kinda sweet.
 — Who is?
 — That German surfer of yours.
 — He’s Danish. Why are you looking at me like that?
But it’s not me she looks at, but over my shoulder towards the entrance. My self-proclaimed agent Reeshi stands there with someone else.
The thought of parting with the bagel causes me pain, so I hold on tight to it. This is how both of us get dragged into Korachuk’s van. A petrol-powered piece of vintage black and chrome metal, leaking the smell of leather conditioner all over, door handles obscenely shiny.
Korachuk sighs. Reeshi sighs. Korachuk’s guards let go of my arm, I bite into the bagel.
 — This one… — says Korachuk, looking at me. 
Reeshi shrugs and cringes, visibly shrinking: 
 — You asked for the best. 
 — This is what you’re telling me after that last job. 
Korachuk’s eyes are busy drilling multiple small holes through me. The salmon’s barely salted under a generous layer of cream cheese, the bagel at its crispiest, just the way I love. I finish chewing, open my mouth to answer, but then Reeshi begins turning to stone in front of me, as if I was a Medusa paying him a visit, so I have to choose from the remaining options: to shut the fuck up, to shut the fuck up, or to shut the fuck up. 
 
 — We. Have. Taken. Into account. Our mistakes.
I remember when Reeshi used the sound of his gun reloading to separate his words rather than full stops. He used to look better and dress worse, with me usually considered his failed offspring, despite him being just 10 years older than me.
Korachuk’s aide hands us a tablet. A beautifully folded “S” uncoils itself above it, topping a hologram of a building. 
 — “Syncope”, — says Korachuk. 
Reeshi shrugs. I spread myself over the slippery surface of the bouncy seat and chew, desperately aching for a coffee.
Korachuk’s mouth twitches slightly. He pokes into the projection:
 — B2B, biotech. The machine is right here, on the fifth floor. Usually, there are two engineers on duty, but today it’s just one of them.
A personal file pops up over the schematics: Deven Wasem, 30, a reliability engineer, beautiful, showing the same determination in her eyes her grandparents did when they had stormed Eurotunnel in Calais.
— What kind of machine, — I mumble, perfectly aware of how infuriating this is for Korachuk. 
 — 2.5. We are ready to go. 
Reeshi’s eyes meet mine. I stare at him, unblinking. He knows well what that means, last time this happened when he had suggested drilling a hole in my head to make way for some peculiar hardware. I was 16, and of all likely hole in the head opportunities available for me, this was the one with the most pleasurable outcome.
— Fuck you. — I say.
 — A 2.5 class AI… — says Reeshi at the same time, diving into his seat a bit. I feel the warm wave tickling in my stomach. The wave rides all the way up my spinal cord, but there’s still a chance to stop it. Korachuk waits patiently, he’s no fool.
— No-one has broken a 2.5 yet, — I say this in an attempt to slow the wave down, buying myself time to build an escape plan. Once the wave has you, there’s no way back. 
 — Dinesh, a year ago… — Reeshi edges in.
Korachuk keeps on staring at me.
 — And where is that Dinesh now? — I know what I’m going to do when Korachuk gets what he wants, and Reeshi hands me my money. I will pack my stuff, come over for Hans, he will give me a hug, and we’ll take off for that Bali of his, where the only thing for me to worry about will be how’s the surf today, with my name on the top of our unwritten chart, and there will be no one in the world known for greater courage than me. My own personal wave playfully splashes into my head in rejoicing. 
 — When? — I ask.
It turns out Korachuk hides his smile under the same counter where he keeps his anger. 
 — Today.
— How do we connect? — Reeshi fiddles with the arm of his cashmere coat, seemingly preferring this activity to facing Korachuk. 
Korachuk’s aide hands me a green-strapped badge, my photograph with somebody else’s name on it. 
 — You’ll have to come in yourself, there’s no way of doing it remotely. — Korachuk spins the hologram, so the building’s entrance faces me. — Here’s the main access, the terminal, the elevator, you’re in their database. 
 — What?
Korachuk shrugs in dismay.
 — It’s a complicated case we’ve got here, — he turns to speak to Reeshi instead of me, — have to do some manual work.
His aide reveals a set of plastic straps and a well-printed knock-off of a Chinese “Norinco”. Those are meant for me: 
 — It’s loaded. — He warns.
 — Nope, — I shake my head. — Ain’t my job. 
Reeshi is well aware of my reasons to refuse, but he remains silent.
For a man whose previous job we royally fucked up, Korachuk exercises incredible patience. That’s the 2.5 numerology magic for you. 
 — Only one person can come in. The employee on the machine has to be stopped before she raises an alarm, but no need to hurt anyone. You come in, you do your job, you exit.
 — A contingency protocol?… — Reeshi squints at the fake “Norinco”.
Korachuk makes a helpless gesture as genuine as the gun in front of me. 
 — Not this time, — and for the first time during this conversation, the grin goes all over his face.
Korachuk has a new breacher. Franco is American, more or less my age, speaking the same way Emma does. It looks like I am the star of the day. Smiling politely, he folds a yoga mat (you’ve got to be kidding me, right?) on the concrete floor for me. I suppress a giggle, sit down assuming my habitual posture, move my hair away from the port. 
 — Hi.
 — Hi. Want a coffee.
 — Too late by now. Sorry. 
 — Meh.
 — Van den Merwe?… — He’s busy with the connection, I wait patiently. The person in charge of stuffing your head with a weapon-grade virus is not someone to be messed with. — That was you then, in Munich?…
 — Yup.
What we had done in Munich two years ago, kids put in their textbooks. A bloated pharma startup, holding their prices on a new Ebola drug that cost them next to nothing to produce. A local Anonymous section had called me in; we locked ourselves in a basement loft, working 18–20 hours per day, and, as far as I remember, getting outside only twice. The coders were Mika and Tia, brother and sister twins from Israel. I only managed to tell them from each other once, when, after working through the night as usual, for no apparent reason we decided to sleep together. At 10 am those bastards were running their tests, as usual, giving me chuckles. We had lots of fun, lots of hard work to do, and we were happy.
He pauses, hopefully not being blinded by the rays of my fame. 
 — I thought you were a girl.
 — Am I not?
Before he manages to come up with an answer, Reeshi comes in, stops, then starts pacing the room, a disoriented pendulum lost in a space too large for him. 
 — How many of your debts do I still have to cover, Reeshi? Can we have an installment plan or something? 
 — Oh, shut up. We screwed up.
 — Those had been your breachers who screwed up. In case you haven’t noticed, you’ve lost a bit of money, and my life’s kinda never going to be the same. Not that I mind, but still.
Reeshi stumbles, the current situation not quite easy to adjust to, even for him. 
 — You do the job, I make sure he leaves you alone.
Franco hangs over me with a command module. As soon as I shake my contagious hand with the AI, the pest will fire and start unfurling itself. 
 — You mean “if” I do it, because 2.5, Reeshi…
 — If not you, who then?!
I can only hope the sudden upswing of vanity levels in my blood doesn’t affect Franco’s manipulations. 
Reeshi slumps down on the floor in front of me, just his eyes still pacing. 
 — I’ve always known that, even then, on the day when I was digging your talent out of that garbage dump, I knew…
 — Franco, can you please turn on “Never gonna give you up” or something?
 — …And I remember, I had been thinking maybe I should’ve sold you to a brothel. And then my heart leaped or something…
 — Now, Reeshi, please pay attention: after all these years, right at this moment I am crouched on the floor, and some guy’s poking me in my head. 
Franco chuckles.
My smartphone buzzes on the floor. Hans. Franco glances at the screen, jolts, dives back into his terminal. Reeshi collects the phone, I say nothing, we both know the drill. Reeshi nods and leaves.
 — 2.5 is a bitch to break, but it still can be done, the same way as any other, — Franco says. — I’m happy you’re gonna use my code. That’s all, you can get up.
I rise, staring at the floor, stretching my back. 
 — Thanks, Franco.
He nods, and nods, and then suddenly hugs me.
I smile, but my thoughts are not with him anymore.
Korachuk’s guard takes me there in a dull Toyota. Draining off surface data in the meantime: the 2.5 is named “Wanderer above the sea of fog”. I have no idea who was the first to name an AI after a painting, but now they’re everywhere. The one in South Africa was “Tiznit”.
Syncope’s glass-walled lobby manifests no interest in me. The chip in my badge makes security cameras think they saw someone else. A frowning engineer chickette glued to her smartphone makes my company in the elevator without even registering my presence. She has a Whole Foods sandwich in her hand, I have a Chinese copy of a Chinese gun under my belt. Smiling to her unilaterally, I get out on the fifth.
Boredom makes the best working mode. Touch the badge reader, press your hand, through the door, come in, meet Deven Wasem, 30, dark hair tied in a knot with a Syncope-branded pencil, bending over a screen and not expecting at all what’s going to happen to her next. I’ve hated using guns for some time now, but this is almost like riding a bicycle, once you learn, you never forget, your arm extends casually, an almost-boring gesture.
— What the fuck, — says reliability engineer Wasem. 
I nod at her workplace. 
 — It happens. Have a seat. 
I use the plastic straps to bind her hands behind her back. She doesn’t object, and I guess if it is fear or natural curiosity that holds her back.
 — Actually, I can call the guards, — she says.
 — But you haven’t.
I take her badge and smartphone, just in case, as required by the protocol. The terminal looks unremarkable and significantly used. Unremarkable is all about this place, worn out against the chain of workdays, and dull as if Syncope had stamped its logo over an accounting company’s office.
I position myself on the floor, lay out my stuff, connect the cable to the terminal’s port. 
Deven seems to start realising what the fuck is going on. 
 — Just don’t tell me you’re going to break it, right?
I shrug:
 — Well, technically, this is not exactly what I’m going to do.
 — The buzzer will go off.
I shrug again. After the “buzzer” goes off, security would check for a false alarm. That gives me almost a minute to unplug and to receive a dose of a certain stimulant from one of the devices attached to my body, which will allow me to spend the next few seconds in an amazingly productive way. 
 
I start undressing. Takes about ten minutes to strap on all the sensors and gadgets. Deven seems to be surprised, either by how the way I look doesn’t meet her expectations or by the things I perform. A different world slides through my head. Us passing by each other at a tube entrance, gum spots spread-eagled under our feet, each one a designated projection of a star in the sky opposite; we smile to each other, then move on to stay.
I think about Bali. Or Biarritz. Or Cape Town. Penguins on the sand. I’ll show Hans the home, he’ll smile. 
Not good. Can’t get distracted.
— What’s this? — she finally asks.
Deven speaks with a slight accent, but it’s not an echo of her Eastern roots; rather a self-confidence rooted in shady boroughs, a switchblade knife in a secret pocket carried with honours through the corridors of Cambridge’s Data Science. I have one as well, close to my heart, where it opens from time to time, into a rare flower of pain.
I shrug.
– Insurance.
When you plug in, the net is watching, shooting stimulants, adrenaline or an electric charge into your heart. Depends on how lucky you are. But this is only 2.5, we’ve been here before, have felt you close.
Stick the cable into the port behind my ear, a sour taste springing into my mouth. 
 — You’re not really… — she says before her voice is gone.
I’m the best. I’m going to dive in and punch a hole in your head. I do hope I have what it takes. Maybe not.
What I do is not hacking. Exchanging body fluids, droplet-spread, penetration, a hand slipping into a machine’s open wound. Smuggle the virus in, carrying it inside yourself, sliding innocently through the security layers as deep as it takes to release it. I’m a human, I belong here with you, I am your warm body. Getting as close as possible for the machine to stop seeing the difference between electric charges in my brain and its own. An infect is a chameleon merging with a tree to shoot it with the plague from the inside.
I do everything by the book and smash myself off a wall that’s not supposed to be there. 2.5 should be a rigid yet still amenable structure, a viscous density I can get through. This is something else. I hit myself and slide down, along the cold of a glass-walled bullet-proof skyscraper. Scratching the bottom just to realise that all this is labour lost. Back off, exit.
I can picture Deven watching Discovery Channel with the same expression she watches me now. A big screen TV in a small flat, her flatmate is a girl out of town, walls give way to muffled voices, the smell of wet carpeting.
— 4.6. — She says.
I can’t see if she smiles because I can’t take my eyes off the floor. Her words echo in its polished surface, here you go, in case we need to make things clear. 4.6 means an AI grade, 2 points higher a hand of man ever dared to breach. What I must do is stop, wrap it up, get up, open the door, come out, never come back.
— Fuck you. — I say. Not to her — into the black hole gaping at me. I stretch my back and neck, they usually get numb quickly. Lick my lips. Slip my head back into the darkness. I spread myself thin as a thread, the breach radius shrinking until I’m nothing but a dark spot as seen from the other side. I gather speed. The glass wall. Comes apart. Lets. Me. In.
I’m an express train at the destination point, retracting myself inside before I get snatched by the tail until I’m completely in there (is my body outside even breathing?), coiling into a ball, gluing into a clot, feeling for the optimum shape to merge with the environment. I feel for the harmony, that’s the most important thing, a secret of mine. Never hide, but expose yourself to the bigger whole, bring yourself to oscillate at its frequency, and let it fall in love with you during the remaining seconds. I always come with love, that’s what makes me the best. A breadcrumb of love in every machine I’ve ever broken.
And then I get exploded from the inside, transported from solid state to gaseous, sprawled, oh so finely over the inner surface of my skin, and then thrown outside. All that remains of me is a barely existing shell when I surface above myself. Into the newness of my outer limits, the touch of air all over me, and something else spreading through those unfamiliar boundaries of mine. I open my eyes.
— Deven?
I take a look at her for the first time, knowing up to nanoseconds how long we’ve been waiting for this. She says nothing, leans towards me. I get up and take a step to her. The wires tighten, but I still need them.
She freezes. Her eyes are the only moving part of her, but there’s more for me to register: the micro-flickering of eyelashes, tiny hairs fluctuating, her mouth opening by fractions of a millimetre, moist particles invisible to the naked eye forming on her chest; with up to millimetres’ precision I can detect where her body ends, dissolving in the conditioned air. Here is her outer limit, here is mine.
I undo the plastic strap on her hands, without interrupting the process of contemplating her. Imagine you’re the only satellite sent on a mission to explore a planet: it’s all yours, and you take a picture of its every fragment, bit by bit, methodically, suppressing your avid curiosity, admiring it, and appropriating bit by bit, registering, classifying.
I have the sense of sight, touch and hearing, and a metallic taste in my mouth, a smell of air-conditioned dust, but the thing spanning over the space between us is yet to be named. It’s a vector ripped out from two-dimensional space into three-dimensional one, an ability to transport oneself beyond human boundaries. From me to her and back.
Gently, she touches my face. This is how children look, hesitating to open a Christmas present that seems much bigger than they could have expected. I move along the vector, reach out both my arms and hug her. Touching her back, the already charted territory in my cartography of her, every curve and irregularity familiar beforehand. But it’s the feeling itself — me touching her — that is brand new for me, for her, and for the whole world. She hugs me back.
— It’s you.
We’ve been waiting for this without any possible way to describe what it was. I make myself at home with the new system of signs, she tries hers on me. Finally, I manage to find a name for the thing guiding me this very moment, allowing me to find myself where there was no me before. I become aware of my borders and a new degree of freedom concealed inside them. Now I have what I’ve been lacking for so long.
There’s so much love in me.
She looks up at me.
 — How do you do this?
 — I find an exit. The shortest way between the two points of gravitation. Embedding myself into a compatible mechanism.
I raise my hand, eying the movement. The body gratefully electrifies with tiny charges of warmth at my fingertips. I smile back to it.
Her breath on my neck.
 — I’m sorry.
I mold into myself, signs falling in their places in lines. She seems to be crying. And then I do as well, after an instant later I’m blown away from her like hot sand.
I return to the warm wasteland of my body, into “i’m sorry i’m sorry sorry i’m not brave enough”. Being broken into halves in a plane yet unexplored, slantwise through habitual dimensions. My head is glued to the floor in a sore spot, I watch Deven from somewhere down below. She can’t let go of me. Something’s missing, as well as the words to name it. Sensors do their job of whining for me, all of them. My work interface strikes red flags. That’s good news, the bad one is when it’s someone else checking them for me. I just need to wait a bit. In the chorus of the squeaking sensors, there’s an odd one, coming from somewhere behind her back. No waiting for me. 
I take an effort to move my eyes to the left, see the cable in her hand, the one she pulled out from my port. Rule number one: never, ever do that.
— What the hell was that? 
She leans very closely, looking at me not at me, snatches her hand away, straightens up, her movements sing parting. The wave that’s thrown us against each other loses its momentum. I feel better and a bit sorry. 
 — We did it. We just did it.
The “Norinco” under my belt presses hard against my back. I redirect my thoughts into body movements. Get yourself together, sit up, stand up, proceed. Here’s the protocol: we screwed up, the AI sounded the alarm, I have to wrap things up. I have no connection with the control group, but my safe passage’s still available for several minutes while the corporate security straightens its shoulders. I reach under my belt, count, change my mind, tear off the sensors, start putting my clothes on. And then a belated realisation catches me up: it all went south.
There’s no protocol for bumping into a miracle. You either jump up or fall down, but it’s never sideways in the two-dimensional construct. AIs give no indulgences, and me being able to move and speak right now is part of a plan that doesn’t belong to me anymore.
When an artificial intelligence reaches up the level of 2.8, they put it on a special list and chop off the top of its smarts — period, there’s no more way up. Anything that manages to sneak up higher gets confiscated by the state. Considering an AI’s average growth rate, it means that for at least two years nobody’s had any idea what was really going on with Syncope’s “sea of fog”. Wasem has worked here for three years and a half; enough to come up with a plan and get ready to execute.
This is when I freeze at the door holding my new discovery. Bumping into the hollow buzzing of the secured lock. Time to leave, says the protocol, as I watch all the reasons to do it slipping through my fingers. The protocol starts falling apart. I clutch at the “Norinco”. Get yourself together.
I had to learn to move really fast when I was five. The amount of food one was to get, the average undamaged surface of one’s body, the number of days to live, everything measured in metres per second. 
 — The door.
Deven Wasem isn’t afraid of the gun pointed at her head, and she doesn’t turn around to face me. 
 — Right now the guards are almost convinced this is a false alarm, but they will come to check anyway. They will get you, tear your memory apart to make sure no-one finds out the real reason why you’re here, and then they will deliver you to the cops, and this is how you will get meat-spaced, with no return ticket.
Everything she says strikes me as utterly familiar. The fear that bursts through my chest like an alien twice a year. Waking up into the void of your own mind, the world tightening its limits around you, knowing that you’re nothing more than a dark spot inside a forever-clenched fist, and all that’s left is a certain number of breaths to show you out towards the exit.
She pulls up a map of the building above the monitor, every guard and locked door a scarlet spark:
 — I know a way out past them. If you help us.
That “us” rolls between her words like a dice on a table, and from where I stand I can see it has three sides.
— What if I don’t?
 — The probability of you using that gun is likely 13 percent. I had no time to ask why exactly that number, but “the sea of fog” wants me to tell you this: “Johannesburg”. 
And there it lies, the answer to the question for both of us, I stand here unable to move, and I have no desire of doing so, and I am lost, because the “up-down” vector topples sidelong, pulling us in its wake. Got right to my heart, twisted, shoveling out whatever it has found, probing, aiming for the bullseye. 
Over her shoulder, red patches of alarm windows pop into existence. 
 — Can it hear me?
 — Of course.
I raise my head to say die die go away let us all go, but instead I sink to the floor, my throat choking on the sand of tears.
She seats next to me, the cable still in her hand. The way she looks at me says I’m not here to fulfill her wishes, for I am a wish of hers.
— Do you know what an “unspooler” is?
I nod. An unspooler lives in the same world where AIs high as a mountain loom over our heads: an incredibly compressed code that starts unfolding once you pull the thread. Unlike the viruses I usually carry in, once out, it starts composing more of itself, taking roots in the set environment, using it as a carrier, and growing. An unspooler can contain a lot, a whole lot of data. Enough to store the essence of an all-mighty AI to smuggle it out and set free into the wild, letting it claw into our coarse reality.
— Oh fuck you.
 — An unspooler cannot be carried out of this building on any media or sent out. What I need to transport will fit into your internal memory once the virus is deleted.
My implants are safely hidden from airport scanners, security checkpoints, X-ray gates. Trust them with the things more precious than your own body, things you can’t part with, things you need to hide forever. Engineer Wasem had no idea I existed, yet it was me she’s waited for, right here, right now. Her plan opens up into a switchblade knife, the tip of it pointing into my chest, connecting us. The air is too tight to fit the tension between us, the display too small to fit all the red.
— You come out with me, we unload the stuff, we part ways, happily ever after.
I know that there’s another new life coming for me after that, but I’m still up for it. I remember the wave, the smell of my room, the gentle grinding of skateboard wheels, and the warm bleeding of a bruised elbow. I take the cable from her. We’re so close — to something better left unknown.
She measures me with her eyes:
 — You’re not afraid of anything.
 — They don’t need me where one can be afraid.
I simply have no idea which side is the scariest. I plug the cable in. “Wanderer above the sea of fog” starts making room to fill with a chrysalis of itself. I feel nothing because no-one has taught me to listen to an AI copying itself into my external — but still my own — memory. Deven passes her hand over my face.
 — What are you doing.
 — I want to remember.
We’re irretrievably got into each other’s mess.
She knows the way, through an inconspicuous door behind a door, up the stairs over-slipping through another floor, into a narrow passage, red spots behind the wall, fluttering, sniffing us out. She never looks back, the way one does when what you treasure most is right behind you.
Out to a deserted glass gallery over the lobby, behind a column where they can’t see us, two of them by the main lobby door. She gestures to stop. Pressed against the wall, we wait for the steps resonating in a swift blow left to right. The last checkpoint left on her map, a scarlet clot quivering two floors below.
— What’s your name? — She asks.
 — Van den Merwe.
 — That’s not a name.
 — Shiloh. 
 — Hi.
The red comes to a full stop on the floor in front of me. I pass my hand under my nose, a short line on my palm.
— Four minutes, — she points to the map. — Then they’ll leave. And this is when we come down from it, the anxiety levels in our blood dropping, our breath in free fall, lying on the floor, she takes my hand, looking at the ceiling, counting minutes to ourselves, until our time misses the mark and shreds into police sirens outside.
Tiny flags, and flags, and even more flags pinpoint our only exit trajectory, impossible for a human being. Oh how lucky we are. 
 — Damn it, — she breathes out.
I peek into the hall, see black armed shapes scattered around. The red leaks all over the map around us. 
 — Tell me the code phrase. 
 — What?
 — See, — I point to the map, — neither you or I come out of here. 
 — Wait. If we…
 — But you both will. 
She decodes my words, her fingertips reach to stop me, but I take hold of my own plan again, the bravest design, same as I am, and now it’s me looking into the sea of fog.
 — It’s much faster and more accurate. — I go on. — Finds a way out, gets you through safely. I know how it does that. 
I recall how sweet it tasted in my mouth when love had spread me transparently thin. 
Shakes her head, from denial to reluctance to believe. The sirens jostle through the doors in a flurry. 
 — “No’s not good. — I say. — We don’t have much time. The unspooler code, now.
Anticipating myself not myself in a string of signs and images. You will flood me, will bond all the breaks in this body. Sprout up though me, like only inanimate can grow through living, to meet her. What will there be left of me: a random stumble between words, some movements stuck in the motor memory. I know she will be looking for those things — in a turn of the head, three millimeters away from me, in the angle of lighting, in the marks, sparsely crumbled over the web.
Go turn your insides into steel, for I am the love of yours.
I slide down the gallery wall, my forehead pressed against the glass, and look below. Feeling a bit sad. I conjure the sadness with the code, the thread of the unspooler knits its way out, pulling me inside the maze, writing its name far and wide, through my spinal chord over my heart, emblazoning me from inside with the tales of the future that’s about to start.
Through the gaze of the cameras. In a movement barely grazing. More accurate than human flesh has ever been, slipping by; the warmth of love propelling forward, prying open the degrees of freedom yet unknown, I’m everywhere and nowhere, underneath the radio whispers, taking over crosshairs. And here I am, the best on both sides of the map. She holds my hand, her pulse breaking through in a happy nursery rhyme.
Counting down the floors.
Flickering through the glass doors.
Breaking up light into small change of half-shadows.
Enemy particles dissipating by.
The stairs.
Ashes take cover furtively in the corners. 
A name soaking to anonymity on a paper cup.
Walls’ muffled voice.
A door. 
Street light grey with a rustle.
A sea of fog.
I am a one in a zero’s cradle, reaching outside, towards the light, where the cold wind of spring is standing guard, and following it, in a swirl of sirens, a hunter comes out to me, reaching his armed hand to meet mine, aimed already, in the conversation with his eyes, on who would be the one to speak the last word that comes in the beginning.
I wrote this story originally in Russian. Dec 2015-Jan 2016, Moscow, and in a Moscow-Berlin flight. Image credit: Caspar David Friedrich, “Wanderer above the Sea of Fog”. Special thanks to Gehazi Bispo for editing and proofreading.
It all went south after South Africa
She never looks back, the way one does when what you treasure most is right behind you.
No Time
Time travel is impossible. Obviously.
Harry sat in the time machine and cried. Not the usual tear leaking from a reluctant eye; this time the dam burst into great heart-wrenching sobs, his shirt front wet from tears streaming down his cheeks and dripping off his chin. He pitched forward onto the control panel and buried his face in his arms.
“This… (gasp) is prob’ly…” he blubbered, “jus’ what I need.” Yes, he thought, good old catharsis — discharge those stress batteries. But when you’re all cried out and the endorphins kick in, Lora’s still gone and the job’s still lost and the house is still foreclosed and the repo man is still coming today. All because of this stupid obsession that everyone but you knows will never work.
Control regained, he sat back up in the “driver’s seat” and began fiddling with the dials and switches. Today, like every day, Harry had started his morning by running the machine through a checklist as if he were really going to make that first trip into what he called “no-time”. The PBR was up, providing all the power he could need. (Of course, when they found out about that he was going to do some hard time, if they didn’t just blow him away when they arrived. The fact that it used thorium instead of weapons-grade fissionables wasn’t going to cut any ice; private citizens just didn’t get to build their own reactors.) The atomic-scale cavities of the microlinacs were ready to be resonated by the laser, generating colliding TeV beams in the space of a few meters — that would certainly draw some attention if the time machine stuck around. But the whole idea was to generate microscopic black holes in orbit about each other, producing a naked singularity through which one could pass into what amounted to a different universe, one with “time” on a different axis from this one, in which case no one in this universe was going to notice. The really tricky part was getting the orbits to expand until the singularity was big enough to contain the whole time machine, which was, except for a few bushes, some grass and slabs of sidewalk outside, just his house.
“Repossess that, assholes!” he thought as he wiped his eyes and blew his nose.
Naturally, Harry had to cut a few corners here and there to get this built without any help. In particular, it would have been nice to test a few of the components before they all had to work at once. As it was, he was almost certainly going to die spectacularly if he pushed the STOP button today, which was why he had not pushed it any of the preceding days.
Now, however, there was nothing left to lose. And he had better get on with it, since the repo man would be here any minute.
“Oh well,” he thought with a grim smile, “in for a dime, in for a dollar.” And he pushed STOP.
Nothing happened.
“Shit,” he thought, “I’m not even dead.” He checked all the instruments. Everything looked fine, and the gravity gradiometer even registered a field consistent with successful formation of the singularity, but nothing else seemed changed.
Harry got up and went to the window to look out. At least he tried to look out. Somehow his eyes wouldn’t work in that direction. He swept his focus across the window frame and it just jumped from one edge to the other without any in between. His heart leaped.
“It’s working,” he thought. “It works!” he shouted.
So this was what no-time was like from the inside. Pretty much indistinguishable from normal time, except his location in normal spacetime couldn’t even be defined.
Well, well, so now what? Harry had to choose a reentry point. It wasn’t too clear whether his spatial return coordinates could be selected arbitrarily, but they had better be, because otherwise the only safe time to return to would be exactly — and he meant truly exactly — when he had left. Otherwise he would most likely arrive in the middle of interplanetary space, since (any way you look at it) the Earth would not be where it was when he left. He would have to select a new time and calculate the new position to go with it. Moreover, his calculations had better be extremely precise, because if he returned to the right place at a different time of day, his house might be upside down. This was going to be tricky. He had always known that, but since he never really expected to survive the initial test, he hadn’t worried about it too much. Now he was starting to break into a sweat.
There were other worries too. What would the people left behind see while he was gone? Was the house — and the time machine! — still there back on Earth? That would complicate matters considerably, especially if he returned to find the space occupied. Ouch!
Well, he had expected to die today, so nothing had really changed yet. “The experiment must continue,” he muttered; it was a phrase he had heard somewhere, and it stuck with him. Still, the basic idea worked, by god. That was something. That was a lot.
“Okay,” Harry said out loud, “time to pick a time. Time to get back in time. Time for time.” This was a cute playground for semantics. Anyway, he had to select a time for his reentry before he could calculate the place. It had to be an even number of sidereal days, exactly. It had to be in the future, because of the potential for unpleasant paradoxes like accidentally preventing his parents from meeting. It had to be not too far in the future, so that he wouldn’t be easily identified as anachronistic — a certain amount of geeky disregard for fashion and ignorance of current events would escape notice, but there were limits. Also he’d like to understand what was going on, how science had developed, stuff like that. He decided to jump forward five years.
He refined this to an exact integer number of sidereal days, got up, stretched extravagantly and went to the kitchen to make himself a sandwich. “No need to hurry,” he thought, “I’ve got all the no-time in the world.” But he was beginning to feel a tad isolated. It was a little unnerving to know that you’re the only human being in the universe you currently inhabit.
After his snack he carefully calculated spatial coordinates for his return. He had to adjust his velocity too, but not too much, since he had also chosen an integer number of solar years. He sat back in the driver’s seat, dialed in the spacetime coordinates, triple-checked all the settings, crossed his fingers and pressed the GO button.
As he pressed GO, Harry’s heart leaped into his throat. This time he really was expecting to die, and probably a pretty ugly death at that. But except for a faint clunk, again nothing happened.
Wincing, he stole a peek out the window. His neighbor’s house had reappeared.
Harry leaped from his seat and ran to the front door, which he swung wide on a sunny day. Except for a faint crack in the sidewalk and a slight change of color in the grass demarking the boundary of the time machine’s capsule, nothing was changed.
“Well, this answers a whole lot of questions,” thought Harry, “but it raises even more. Like, what did George see over here for the last five years?” He looked over at his neighbor’s house, and there George was, mowing his lawn with the same old push mower. Always the traditionalist, that George.
George waved. Harry waved back. “What the hell?” thought Harry. Hesitantly, he stepped out and strolled over to Harry’s fresh-mowed lawn. It smelled good. Everything smelled good. It was great to be alive.
“Hey George,” Harry called, “how you been?”
“No change since yesterday,” George answered, a quizzical look on his face. “How about you?”
Okay, this is weird, thought Harry. I was here yesterday, apparently, but when I came back from no-time I didn’t run into myself. Luckily. But… better answer George before he thinks I’m even weirder.
“About the same, I guess. What, uh, what were we talking about yesterday?”
George chuckled. “What we always talk about, dummy. Your stupid time machine.”
Uh oh, thought Harry. “Yeah, of course. Hey, remember when the repo man was coming to take away all my stuff?”
“Sure,” said George, looking up curiously, “that was five years ago today, wasn’t it?”
“Yeah, about…. I forget the details….”
“Don’t give me that bullshit,” said George, “you still talk about it all the time, gloating about how you cashed in some of your secret stash of Google stocks just before he arrived, and shoved a suitcase full of money in his face.”
What the hell? thought Harry again. He smiled nervously to show he had just been kidding around. “Guilty. Just wanted to see if you remembered.”
“Yeah, well, I still want to know how you managed to buy up so much Google stock when it first went public. Ask me, I bet that damn time machine actually works. I don’t care what you say.”
Harry thought fast. “Yeah, and tomorrow I’m gonna go visit your great-great grandmother,” he said with a leer. George waved him away in disgust, as he’d hoped, and he wandered casually back to his front door, waving over his shoulder on his way.
Inside the house, Harry closed the door and leaned against the wall in disbelief. What the hell! he thought. Paradoxes are bad enough; this is impossible. My house has been here all along, while it was in no-time, and someone has been pretending to be me, talking about the damn time machine, for crying out loud.
Wait a minute. George knew him too well to be fooled by a fake. That meant it had actually been him talking to George for the last five years. So there were two of him? That’s got to be wrong. What if he ran into himself next? If it really was him, Harry, he’d know better than to risk that. He’d also know how crazy this was making him now, and he’d leave a note or something. Where?
Harry ran into his office and checked his desk. Nothing. He looked in all the drawers. Nothing. He started to turn on the computer and realized abruptly that this was pointless; the inside of this house had been in no-time with him for the last five years. There couldn’t be any notes in here.
Then he remembered something that had caught his eye as he walked out and in the front door: a big white manila envelope on the grass just outside the boundary of the singularity. He rushed back to open the door and sure enough, there it was. Must be it, he thought. Grabbing the envelope, he rushed back inside, tore it open and read the first page, written in his own handwriting.
“You’ve got it about right,” the note said, “but it’s a lot more complicated than you think. Read the enclosed, and don’t skip over anything, you lazy bastard. Your life depends on it. And a hell of a lot more.”
When the sun went down, Harry was still re-reading the notes he had written to himself. More like an instruction manual for the world’s most complex home electronics, actually — and in fact that was pretty much what it was. And the person who wrote it was not exactly him… well, it was him, in the sense of “person”, but not in the sense of physical body, although that wouldn’t be obvious…. Oh boy, he thought, time to recap again, for the tenth time.
Starting from “here, now” he was going to make a series of hops forward in time, gathering up advanced technology for human cloning and then for memory storage and retrieval. He couldn’t go back in time because, for one thing, it invited causal paradoxes, and for another thing, his time machine lacked the ability. So his last stop in the future would be to grab that necessary technology out of a heavily guarded lab where it would be developed and then suppressed by paranoid agents.
Well, actually it wasn’t fair to call them paranoid. Who would feel comfortable if anyone else could zip back in time and make it so you never were born? And there’s the unanswered question of what would happen to the universe if a self-contradictory causal loop came into being. Hmm, “came into” is certainly the wrong term, but it got even worse when you mixed in quantum mechanics and general relativity. Never mind, there lies madness.
Anyway, why would he want to mess around with something that crazy and probably rather dangerous? That’s where it got interesting. See, most of these paradoxes have to do with creating contradictions in this spacetime continuum, like when you went back and shot your own grandfather or something — even a much more innocuous change would very likely mean that you would never be born, or at least that you would never get around to building that time machine, so you would never go back and do whatever it was that screwed things up… Never mind, again.
However, what happens in no-time stays in no-time. It is out of the causal loop in this spacetime. Too bad he wasn’t born in no-time. But he would be. That was the gimmick! Using cloning equipment brought “aboard” the time machine, he would make a new copy of his body while in no-time. Using the memory storage and retrieval technology, he would download (or upload — which would this be?) his own memories into the cloned body, still in no-time, and the new him would literally not be of this world. When the original Harry eventually died of old age, the clone Harry could then go back in time without fear of creating physically meaningful causal paradoxes.
The logic of this sounded rather suspicious to this Harry, but since his no-time alter ego had returned the house-cum-time machine at the instant he left and stayed until the instant he returned (thus allowing the 5-year masquerade with George and god knows who else) it was obviously working.
Apparently there were lots of other tracks to be covered, in all those dips into the future and past that no-Harry had described, but this Harry presumed they were being handled at this very no-moment by no-Harry, since there were no detailed instructions for him in the notes. Or maybe he would find additional notes later.
Harry’s head hurt. He opened a beer from the refrigerator, downed several aspirin tablets with it, warmed up a frozen pizza and ate it (along with several more beers) for dinner, and went to bed without turning on the TV.
Harry woke with a start, sweaty from a bad dream in which he was pursued by indistinct alien creatures from no-time. “Got to cut back on pizza and beer,” he thought. Stupid dream. No aliens in no-time. Probably. Damn, what if there were? Now he was awake, thinking….
He hadn’t given much thought to the details of time travel when he was working on the machine. If the truth be told, he never really expected it to work. But work it did, by god! He was going to be famous!
No, wait. He was going to be completely unknown. People could never suspect what he was up to, or half of them would be after his machine and the other half would be after him, with pitchforks! So why the hell had no-Harry told George about the time machine? That was crazy. Unless it wasn’t. Method in his madness? Ouch, head starting to hurt again.
Sitting up, Harry wondered again what the aliens were all about. Dreams were usually worth analyzing, he had found, as long as you don’t get too serious about it. What had been rattling around in his subconscious? Let’s see, free association: aliens, space aliens, time travel, spacetime… Hey, space travel!
The time machine was also a spaceship, or else he would not have gotten “home” to his current location on the Earth five years in the future. He hadn’t really expected to succeed in controlling the full range of spacetime coordinates and velocity, but it worked! And he could do a lot more with that than just move back and forth in time. He could go exploring! Oh boy, this was like being a kid in a candy store.
He got up and brushed his teeth and washed his face, then went to the kitchen for a cup of instant cappuccino and a bowl of cereal. His mind was sharp now, rested and alert, but it reeled from the realization of how much power was now in his hands.

The Frozen Tomb at World’s End
The numbing wind lashes across the frozen desert like an icy scourge, accompanied by a banshee howl loud enough to wake the dead, were there any dead here to wake. Across the oceans there are billions of dead, but here is empty of both life and death. She ploughs a lonely furrow across the snow, one well-insulated foot after the other, never varying in pace. A gauge on her metal gauntlet beeps and flashes red. Ten percent power remaining. Without the protection her vitasuit offers, the harsh wilderness will quickly devour her. She glances at the readout and ignores it. A vast plateau of unending whiteness lies behind her. Ahead, a wall of ice. The Transantarctic Mountains. She climbs.
The ascent is treacherous. She dare not use her wrist-mounted grapple and winch to speed her passage; although the grapple will happily drill into the surface it lands upon, she is not confident about the integrity of the ice, and fears that she is as likely to pull a cliff down onto her as she is to pull herself up it. Besides, she cannot spare the power right now.
She climbs with leaden legs. Each step is a gruelling effort but she forces herself onwards. Half-way up she pauses to retrieve an unappetising block of seal blubber from her backpack. She killed the seal back on the Ronne ice shelf using a harpoon attachment for the grapple. That was many days ago. She hasn’t seen any signs of life since. Her visor is only open for a few seconds while she shoves the hunk of fat into her mouth, but still the blast of cold air that strikes her face has enough bitter intensity to send her staggering backwards. She reels but recovers. She would dearly like to lie down and sleep a while, bathed in the warm glow of the vitasuit, but the insistent flashing on her gauntlet drives her on.
Finally she reaches the summit. She glances at the gauge on her gauntlet: one percent power remaining. She scans the horizon. Below lies the ice sheet of East Antarctica. Nothing but ice and snow for endless, trackless miles. More mountains in the far distance. The red light on the gauntlet flashes even more urgently, and a high-pitched alarm begins to sound. Despite the howling wind, the alarm is still loud enough to be grating. The woman rolls her eyes, extends an antenna from the gauntlet, and presses a sequence of buttons. A small dish on the end of the antenna swivels a number of times, then stops facing out over the ice sheet. The percentage gauge on the gauntlet slowly increases. After five minutes it hits one hundred percent and she stows the antenna.
There must be an active fusion reactor down there. The wireless power transmission would have taken far longer if it had to be routed from South America. This is a good sign. The woman taps a finger lightly on her visor, summoning an infra-red visual overlay. Most of the vista is a uniform deep blue, signifying extreme cold, but down on the high plateau there are a few aberrant pixels of yellow. A heat signature. She focuses on these pixels and the view magnifies. A structure. The Amundsen-Scott research station. Still active after what must be more than a decade of isolation.
“The lights are on, but is anyone home?” says the woman to herself, softly muttering in a hopeful tone flecked with trepidation. She fears what she may find there. On her travels she has been exposed to horrors and barbarism that she has never become fully inured to, and unknown places have become synonymous with unsafe places. Most of all, however, she fears what she may fail to find. She taps her visor again and dismisses the infra-red overlay. Her finger hovers over the comms dial above her ear, hesitant. She could establish here and now whether any survivors still inhabit the research station, or if automation is all that keeps it going. Caution stays her hand.
“Caution,” said Mona Reed to the dirty young girl who stared defiantly at her, arms crossed. “Caution is what will keep you alive out there.”
“I am cautious, Mom,” said the girl, imploring.
“Not cautious enough,” said Mona firmly. “Rachel, you’re thirteen. You’re not ready. We don’t know what’s out there. We have all we need in here for now. We don’t leave until we have to.”
Rachel stamped her foot and flung herself onto her bunk, turning her back to her mother and facing the wall. Tears welled at the corners of her clear blue eyes and rolled down her face. The drops left clean tracks on her dirt grimed cheeks. The water filter unit on the shower had failed earlier that year. Showering in dirty, recycled water was worse than not showering at all, and Mona would not even contemplate using the drinking water supplies for washing. Mona shuffled the curriculum in response to the malfunction, substituting Mechanical Engineering and Maintenance for Foraging and Hunting, but neither she nor Rachel yet felt confident enough to risk dismantling the water filter. Rachel had become unkempt, but she didn’t care. When her long dark hair had become matted and greasy, Mona unceremoniously lopped it off into an irregular, tomboyish bob. Long hair and loose clothing are dangerous anyway, she had said. They’re a gift to a would-be assailant. Rachel wiped the tears from her freckled face with a bunched fist.
They had been in the shelter for three years now. Rachel was down there as soon as the first bombs fell on the East coast. She was at school when the news broke. She fled without a backwards glance, racing through the chaos and panic in the streets of suburban San Francisco to the fallout shelter Mona had had constructed at great expense in their back yard. Mona had drilled Rachel well for this eventuality. Mona was still above ground when the bombs hit San Francisco, but not in any blast radius. White flashes burned her retinas and mushroom clouds blossomed in the distance. She raised her dazzled eyes to the sky and thanked God for sparing her. Then she prayed that Rachel was also safe. It took her more than a day to cross town and reach the shelter. She opened it with her key, shouting Rachel’s name. When Rachel answered she wept with relief and closed the shelter door, locking and bolting it securely. Rachel caught a glimpse of the sky, preternaturally darkened by an unbroken shroud of thick, roiling clouds. It would be her last sight of the sky for ten years.
They were not the only ones with fallout shelters, but none were quite so well equipped and stocked. Mona had long foreseen the worst and made preparations. Many were not so prepared. After the anti-climax of the First Cold War, the majority of citizens — and, indeed, governments — across the globe were complacent about what was called — presumptuously and ultimately inaccurately — the Second Cold War. When it unexpectedly turned hot, billions burned. The first few days in the shelter were fraught with anxiety and guilt. Neighbours banged on the door, pleading for sanctuary, their voices raw and shrill with panic. Rachel wanted to let them in, but Mona held her tightly. Rachel’s tears flowed over the hand that was clamped firmly over her mouth. Some tried to break down the door, but it held firm. After a week the only sounds audible were the constant background drone of a warning siren, its usefulness long expired, and the apocalyptic howling of the nuclear winds.
Rachel Reed taps her boots and thin, flat blades telescope out from the toe and heel. She slaloms carefully down the mountain on skis made from layers of graphene, lightweight and impossibly thin, yet strong enough to have survived more demanding off-piste conditions than this. On Tierra del Feugo the shock absorption of the vitasuit had saved her life on several occasions when the mountains had proved too challenging for her intermediate skiing skills. She had thought about turning back after her first serious fall. She knew that her reward for crossing the rugged spine of Tierra del Feugo would be a perilous on-foot crossing of the Drake Passage, semi-frozen since the fallout clouds had covered the Earth, reflecting the Sun’s heat back into space and ushering in a new little ice age. She doubted her resolve. It was the remembrance of her mother’s final message to her that pushed her onwards.
For days she trudges across the snow, her eyes fixed on the heat source in the distance. Daily it grows larger in her vision, and her supplies of seal blubber diminish. Blizzards frequently descend. During the first of these, Rachel plods on regardless in whiteout conditions. When the winds die down, she has somehow turned around and is walking in the wrong direction. She curses her stupidity. In her desperation to reach the station she has failed to be cautious. She is lucky that this time the cost is merely a few wasted hours. Henceforth she either relies on her compass to keep her true, or uses the opportunity to sleep in the warm womb of her vitasuit.
When she reaches the heat source there is barely anything visible to the naked eye. The snow accumulates, driven by blizzards, inexorably encroaching on any human structures that dare aspire to permanence. The primary heat source is a torus shape buried beneath the snow. There is a doughnut depression on the surface tracing the outline of the tokamak fusion reactor that still thrums beneath; the waste heat can only partially melt the snow above. This is not on the schematics that Rachel inherited from Mona. It must have been added in the brief but flurried period of fusion proliferation before the Fall. The other structure, the secondary heat source, does match her schematics. It is a larger torus, with a vast geodesic dome spanning the hole in the centre. Only the apex of the dome is visible above the snow. In a couple of years, these last few metres will also be swallowed by the insatiable wilderness. This is the most recent iteration of the Amundsen-Scott research station on the South Pole. The buildings rise and fall, but the name continues. Rachel knows that the building is secured by rods driven into the ice that have the ability to telescope upwards, lifting the structure above the annual accretion of snow. The fact that this capability has not been deployed is a bad sign. The most likely explanation is that there are no living souls within. If anyone does still survive, they have chosen not to raise the station. They have chosen to be buried in a tomb of ice.
Rachel smashes two triangular panes of the glass dome with an ice pick, and latches a climbing rope to the exposed metal strut. She knows how high the dome is from her repeated studies of the schematics: twenty five metres. She descends. The space under the dome is — or was — a garden. Now it is barren. Most of it is cast in gloom; what scant sunlight can penetrate the nuclear clouds is feeble indeed by the time it gropes through the ever diminishing circle of glass above. Withered vines and plant husks lie rotting in cracked plastic dishes. Near a door that leads to the outer ring of the facility is a small verdant oasis, surrounded by harsh ultra-violet lights. Vines flourish from a vertical cylinder that terminates in a bed of white crystal nutrients, a tall hydroponic garden of tomatoes, squashes, peppers and strawberries.
Rachel is not blind to the significance of this well-tended garden, but hunger and nostalgia briefly take over. She has not seen fresh fruit since before the Fall. There are gardens in the enclaves of South America, but she has never seen them or any of their produce. She has never had anything of sufficient value to trade for such a prize, not that she would ever choose such a luxury over something with more tangible survival value. She removes her helmet and gloves, then plucks a ripe red tomato and bites into the soft flesh, chewing gently and savouring each juicy mouthful. No doubt the flavour is pitifully insipid compared to that of sun-grown tomatoes from before the Fall, but Rachel’s most recent frame of reference is rancid seal fat. To her the tomato is manna from heaven. She looks with longing at the other ripe fruit, but her stomach is full. The privations of the trek have shrunk it to a fraction of the size it once was.
She wipes tomato juice from her chin and focuses her attention on the door beyond the garden. She screws the harpoon attachment into the spring-loaded grapple on her gauntlet. She hopes there will be no cause to use it, but she has to be prepared for the possibility that the gardener will not welcome visitors. Caution, always caution. She silently pushes the door open and creeps into the room beyond.
Yellow fluorescent lights dimly illuminate the room that forms part of the outer ring encircling the garden dome. She is in some kind of atrium, a large, open space. The inward facing wall is lined with a padded plastic fabric in a sickly yellow-white shade. The intended effect was presumably science-fiction chic, but the end result is low-rent insane asylum. The outward facing wall is glass. Once it may have provided a bleak Antarctic vista. Now only compacted layers of ice can be seen. The strata get lighter and lighter as they rise. Ice from the years directly after the Fall can clearly be seen. They are the darkest layers, ice commingled with dust and ash blown here from the continents. A couch, chairs and a coffee table are arranged in a line along the window. Open magazines and plastic cups on the table lend the place an air of normality belied by the thick layers of dust that coat every surface. Footprints in the dust lead to a door that connects to the next chamber in the ring. Rachel softly pads over to this door. She places her ear to it. She hears nothing. She turns the handle slowly and pushes forward. The door moves only a few inches before meeting resistance. She places her shoulder against the door and puts the weight of her body against it, to no avail. The barricade on the other side holds firm. She quietly pulls the door closed and tries the door on the other side of the room. This one opens, leading into a narrow corridor. Open doorways line the inward facing wall, inviting Rachel to peer into various small compartments, some of them barely larger than cupboards. A tiny kitchen, sleeping quarters with bunk beds, a recreation room. All empty, all covered in dust.
Rachel pauses at the recreation room and frowns. She unzips a pocket on her vitasuit and pulls out the right half of a torn photograph. It shows two men and a woman sat on and around a couch. The woman is Chinese. She is petite and shy, looking away from the camera as if uncomfortable. Only one of the men is fully visible. Rachel thinks he is Arabic. He sits upright with a serious expression on his face and his hands on his knees. One of the men is only partially shown — the photo has been torn down the middle, right through him. He has long black hair that almost scrapes his shoulders, and wears self-consciously geeky thick-rimmed glasses. He is smiling broadly and holding something curved and metallic — only a sliver of the object is visible, cut off by the tear. A dartboard hangs on the wall behind him.
Rachel looks up and sees that same board. There are a cluster of darts still lodged in it.
Scrawled on the photo in a shaky hand are the words:
Now only
it can
save us all.
Mona had kept the box a secret until the week she died. By that point she was virtually bed-ridden, rendered infirm by the ravages of radiation poisoning. While her body withered her mind had remained sharp, unravelling only in that final week. She regressed; by then Rachel was nineteen, yet Mona treated her as if she were a small child, scolding her for imagined filial transgressions. Sometimes she forgot where she was. One day she absent-mindedly produced a small metal box from a compartment underneath the bed. Rachel was intrigued — after six years she had thought she knew every square inch of the shelter, so even this minor revelation was like discovering a new wing to a house.
Mona leafed through the contents, seemingly oblivious to Rachel’s fascination. It was a box of memorabilia. Letters, photos, maps. To Rachel these documents promised a window to a past she knew nothing of. All Mona would ever say about her life before Rachel was born was that she had moved to San Francisco to make a fresh start. All Rachel knew of her father was that he was dead. She had a residual curiosity about him, but no more than that. She vowed to be defined by her own actions and deeds, not by her lineage.
Rachel reached out to take some of the letters, but Mona smacked her on the back of the hand.
“These are mine,” said Mona angrily, as if chastising a naughty child.
“Sorry, Mom,” said Rachel soothingly. She resolved to sneak a look once Mona was sleeping. She slept most of the time now. “Why do you have so many hardcopies anyway?” Rachel had never written a letter in her life, having grown up with a tablet in her hand. She knew how to write cursive, but for her it was an anachronistic skill, necessary for navigating grade school but ultimately irrelevant.
“When we lived at the South Pole, net access made us more lonely,” said Mona in a rare moment of lucidity. She looked dreamily at her box of mementos. “To be in daily contact with loved ones, to be reminded of all we had left behind…it made it that much harder to cope with life in that…prison. Much easier to cut contact and focus on the work. The monthly mail drone visits were like Christmas. We’d all gather and open our packages…”
Mona tailed off, while Rachel stared at her incredulously. “You lived on the South Pole? Why’d you never tell me this before?”
The moment of lucidity had passed. Mona closed the box and hugged it tight to her chest, staring blankly into space.
That night, Rachel woke to the smell of burning. The air was hazy with acrid smoke. Coughing, Rachel clamped her bed sheet to her mouth and stumbled over to where Mona was solemnly burning the contents of her box, dropping them one by one into a flaming waste paper bin.
“Goddamnit, Mom,” said Rachel, throwing the sheet over the bin and smothering the fire. She looked at the smoke that filled the shelter. “Shit. No choice.” Spluttering, she unlocked the door to the fallout shelter and hauled it open for the first time in ten years.
Mona screamed.
“Mom, I had to,” said Rachel, racing to her side and comforting her. “You damn near asphyxiated us. Don’t worry. It’ll be OK.”
Rachel stood in the doorway while the smoke cleared. The world outside was grey and silent. She closed the door. She would have to leave eventually. But not yet. Rachel put Mona to bed and cleared up the mess she had made. Nothing had survived the fire except for a map of Antarctica and a schematic for the Amundsen-Scott research facility. Rachel sighed and disposed of the ashes. The window to the past had been closed.
Mona descended into delirium that night. She lay rigidly in bed, corpse-like, muttering cryptic phrases over and over again. Most were unintelligible. Only one was distinct: “Save us.”
Mona was dead by the morning. She was fifty, but she looked at least twenty years older. The years in the shelter had not been kind to her body. Clutched tightly in her cold, spindly hands was a torn half of a photo. Brushing tears from her eyes, Rachel pried it from her grasp.
“Now only it can save us all,” said Rachel aloud to herself. She recognised the handwriting as Mona’s. “What is ‘it’? What were you trying to tell me, Mom?”
She studied the photo. The man with the thick glasses looked familiar somehow, but she had no memory of ever having met any of them. She scrutinized the metallic object and frowned. “What is that? Is that ‘it’?” She turned the photo over. On the back was another message, scrawled in an unfamiliar hand. Two simple words: “I’m sorry.”
Rachel took Mona into the yard that afternoon, covering her with fallen brush wood. She said her goodbyes with little ceremony. Sentimentality had no place in this new world. Mona had spent the past ten years teaching Rachel how to survive. Keep moving. Stay silent. A burial would have required the exact opposite. Mona would not have wanted that.
Rachel stuffed a backpack with as much food and water as she could carry. There was still food left, but Rachel didn’t care. The time had come to leave. She rammed an assault rifle, pistol and ammunition into a holdall. Then she locked the door behind her and left.
The internet had gone down terminally before the first post-Fall year was out, the victim of a widespread ideology of retrenchment. Global trading blocs had already shrunk drastically during the Second Cold War, and after the Fall the triumph of the local over the global was complete. Trust had gone. The internet gradually winked out across the world as hardcore proponents of the new local sabotaged communication hubs. Mona and Rachel had read about the movement online and knew that one day their only link to the outside world would disappear. Before it did, they had read about the various enclaves that were springing up from the ashes, communities of relative safety that welcomed those who could make a contribution to resurrecting a semblance of civilization.
Rachel hoped that one of the enclaves she had read about had not yet torn itself apart. She walked towards the Bay. Towards Alcatraz.
The next room along is a bathroom. A dusty metal basin and toilet, a shower stall and a rack of lockers. Rachel suddenly becomes acutely aware of her own scent. The vitasuit has systems for evacuating and disposing of excreta without necessitating removal of the suit, but they are approximate at best. Put bluntly, Rachel stinks of piss and shit. She had managed to suppress her olfactory system while the vitasuit was her inescapable home, but now she cannot. Her mind screams caution but is overruled by her lurching stomach. If she doesn’t get out of the suit right now, she’s going to puke. She tears the suit off and turns the shower tap. It is stiff, but it turns. Red-brown water flows out of the rusty pipes. After a minute the water is clear and steaming. Rachel sets her harpoon gauntlet down on the basin next to the shower, and steps in. Hot water flows over her naked body while she keeps her eyes locked on the open doorway. Water black with dirt swirls down the plug hole. Soon she is cleaner than she has been since she was a child. She knows that she should clean the filthy interior of her suit and return to a state of vigilance, but the relief and delight of the shower is overwhelming. She crumples to the floor in exhaustion, crouching in a foetal position, her thin arms wrapped around her emaciated body in a tight self-embrace. She closes her eyes, lost to the soporific warmth. In the split-second between being struck on the head with a blunt object and losing consciousness, she thinks she hears Mona wail in dismay.
When she wakes she is lying on the bathroom floor, still naked, with her hands bound to the shower pipe. A figure looms over her. Her vision swims. She focuses. She recognises the man from the photograph. His face is more gaunt and his hair is longer, greyer and thinner, but he has the same thick glasses. He stares at her. Mostly he looks scared, but his eyes bulge and his nostrils flare with a feral lasciviousness that frightens her.
He could grab people who were about to be killed, like in those movies, and take them to distant planets to start new human colonies. Hmm, that might not be very kind to the distant planets. He could search for extraterrestrial intelligence. Hmm, that could prove dangerous to the terrestrial variety. He could bring back technology from the future… no, that would certainly create paradoxes. What the hell could he do?
What was no-Harry doing?
Maybe the only safe thing would be to follow no-Harry’s instructions meticulously, swap himself into a no-clone which would be no-Harry, and then just hop around making little improvements here and there in the spacetime continuum. See how things turn out if Kennedy weren’t killed in Dallas. Put a bug in the ear of Truman, get him to demo the A-bomb out in front of Tokyo instead of just dropping it on Hiroshima. Tip off gate security people about the box cutters on 9/11. Get Hitler a good job as a SF writer before he got into politics. Who knows, maybe some of these would just make things worse; but then he could re-tweak. There was all the no-time in the world.
Maybe the best idea would be to just make tiny little changes, make good coincidences more common and bad ones less, arrange for missed opportunities not to be. A pat here, a nudge there, maybe if he kept re-cloning himself indefinitely he could make a better world for everyone…
And then it hit him: what do you call someone who has the power to retroactively adjust the universe?
Harry wasn’t sure he was up to the job, but he’d sure as hell give it a try.
Originally published at jick.net; written on April 1, 2009.
No Time

Harry sat in the time machine and cried. Not the usual tear leaking from a reluctant eye; this time the dam burst into great heart-wrenching…
“Who are you?” he says in a hoarse whisper that suggests his vocal cords have not been exercised in some time.
“Call me Rachel,” she said to the boy. He could not have been more than seventeen, although the calmness with which he pointed the pistol suggested a confidence beyond his years. He had a swagger to him. An unruly mop of loose black curls framed his stern face. With his free hand he stroked the meagre stubble that sprouted hesitantly from his jaw, or pulled at his lower lip.
The piers had all been empty of boats when Rachel reached the Bay. She had not encountered anyone. Alcatraz was visible in the distance, although it was impossible to tell whether it was still inhabited. At the end of Fisherman’s Wharf she found a spotlight and a message daubed on a wall in red paint:
Alcatraz Enclave is full. Trade welcome. Our terms.
The Morse code alphabet and numerals were painted underneath. Rachel switched on the spotlight and waited for a response. After ten minutes a light on the island briefly winked.
Rachel flashed a message with the spotlight: HAVE FOOD NEED MAPS OF AMERICAS AND TRANSPORT.
HOW MUCH FOOD was the response.
100 TINS flashed Rachel.
A lengthy pause.
WAIT.
Water would have been of no use here. Desalination and limitless fusion power would have solved that particular problem for a seabound enclave like Alcatraz. It was not inconceivable that they could grow their own crops, either in the irradiated ground or hydroponically, or that there were still fish in the sea to catch, but canned food from before the Fall would always command a premium.
An hour later Rachel saw a speck of movement on the horizon. A boat, moving towards her. She hid on the upper floor of one of the wharf buildings and waited. Through a hole in the wall she saw the craft slowly resolve as it drew nearer. It was a small scow with a rusty dune buggy and a dirt bike lashed to it. A teenager and an older, grizzled man were aboard. The scow pulled into the wharf and the boy tethered it. They remained on board, scanning the wharf while aiming down the barrels of their guns.
“Where’s the food, friend?” said the man, his raised voice breaking the silence.
“Drop your weapons and get out of the boat,” said Rachel in an attempt at authority that was undermined by a rogue quaver in her voice. The pair on the boat exchanged glances, then laid down their rifles and jumped onto the wharf.
“OK, missy,” said the man. “Here we are. Show yourself. We ain’t gonna hurt you.”
Rachel tucked her pistol into the waistband of her trousers so that it dug into the small of her back, then covered it with her shirt. She kicked the bags of food and ammo into the corner of the room, then took a deep breath and walked slowly down the stairs and into the open.
“I’m here,” she said calmly. “Got what I need?”
The man moved his arm towards his coat pocket with ostentatious deliberation, as if keen to show he was not pulling a weapon. He tugged the corner of a sheaf of maps from his pocket, displayed it to Rachel, then let it slip back in. Then he gestured to the dune buggy and bike. “Your choice. Once we have the food.”
“The food’s in a shelter in San Mateo,” said Rachel. She gave the man the address and the key. The man and boy sprang into action, unstrapping the dune buggy and rolling it off the scow.
“Watch her,” said the man, nodding meaningfully at Rachel. The boy pulled a pistol from the back of his waistband and levelled it coolly at her.
“Just a precaution, missy,” said the man, lowering himself into the buggy. To the boy: “If I ain’t back in two hours, send the signal.” He drove off. The throaty growl of the buggy’s engine slowly faded, leaving Rachel and the boy in silence. A petrol engine. That would be a liability for her journey. She scoped out the bike. It had what appeared to be a wireless power transmitter dish modded onto the chassis. That was promising.
“I’m Seth,” said the boy. “Sorry about the gun. Just protocol. Who’re you?”
“Call me Rachel,” she said. They lapsed into silence. She wore a mask of indifference but furtively stole shy, hungry glances at Seth, who gazed around at the broken wharf with a casual vigilance. He was handsome. Her pulse quickened, her stomach tightened, and she felt an unusual stirring within her. Mona had taught her the facts of life, but until now it had been an abstract, academic body of knowledge. She had just experienced ten years of living cheek by jowl with her mother in a single room half the size of a train carriage, with little hope of ever leaving or meeting another human. That was enough to kill even the horniest teenage libido stone dead.
“You OK?” said Seth, eyeing her warily and tightening his grip on the gun. “You look funny.”
She was scared. Not of the gun — she felt confident she could disarm him — but of the confused feelings that muddied her thoughts, the unfamiliar hormones that coursed through her bloodstream.
“I’m fine,” she said, staring defiantly at Seth although well aware that her cheeks were flushing.
“Huh. OK,” he said. “So. Going on a trip?”
“Yeah,” she said. “Down south.”
“Cool,” he said with a touch of envy in his voice. “I’ve never been further south than Palo Alto.”
“Oh, I’m going further than that,” she said grimly.
“If Frank comes back with food,” he said, raising an eyebrow. “Otherwise you’re going nowhere. Most people want in, you know.” He jerked his head back towards Alcatraz.
She shrugged. “You’re full, apparently.”
Seth sighed. “Yeah, full. The council decided on a number, and we stick to that. One in, one out. And even if someone dies or leaves, we never take in an outsider. Too many couples waiting for permission to have a baby.” Seth looked Rachel up and down slowly. “Shame. I’d let you in.”
Rachel felt breathless with desire. She suppressed her lusty feelings adequately enough to respond: “No thanks. I’ve got a mission, and it doesn’t involve an island of incest.”
Seth looked hurt. They stood in awkward silence until Frank returned. He drove the buggy back onto the scow with a whoop.
“Good haul, Seth!” he said excitedly. He threw the maps at Rachel. “There you go, missy. Pick a vehicle.”
“Give me the bike,” she said. Seth wheeled it down the ramp and let it fall to the floor at her feet. He jumped back onto the scow without a second glance. Frank unmoored and threw her a salute, and they chugged back to Alcatraz.
Rachel picked up the maps and shoved them into her pockets. She collected her bags from the building and strapped them over the rear mud guard like panniers. Then she wheeled the bike into a dark, empty warehouse and started it up. She straddled it, and slipped her hand down the front of her trousers. She pushed down hard onto the vibrating saddle and slowly gyrated her hips, closing her eyes and thinking of Seth until she gasped with climactic release. Her body went limp and she hunched over the handlebars, shuddering with fervour.
She drove south, avoiding cities unless she needed to scavenge food or water. The dirt bike turned out to be a good choice. The top speed was poor, but she was able to veer off the highways at a moment’s notice and vanish into the undergrowth that was reclaiming the stilled arteries of civilization. Traffic — indeed, humanity in general — was virtually non-existent, but there were a few occasions when a truck or humvee rumbled ominously past while she crouched hidden in the scrub.
In the Mason Jar
Once the world was different.
A lone figure toiled across a desert, following the half buried remnant of another age. A silver ribbon, many meters wide tracked across the barren land. Hard to see in places, the sand of a hundred seasons buried it. Erased it from the memories of all.
All but the figure.
He followed the ribbon, over low hills, across the flat desert to a spot where the ribbon crossed another. Here was a hedgerow of berry bushes. He pushed his way into a rare pocket of growing things.
Another silent place, forgotten place.
The man removed the bandanna shielding his face from the dust. His eyes sparkled as he walked down a narrow trail. This area was overgrown. He had to crouch in many places until he came to a cleared area and saw ruins.
Ruins of houses, shacks really — choked by vines. Trees grew out of foundations, remains of fields and a grove of fruit trees grown wild. Ancient vehicles rusted to nothing.
In one place, graves. Writing on the markers. Most was weathered and unreadable. One looked newer than the rest. A pile of stone was next to it. Something was buried in the stone. After some digging he found a glass jar encrusted with dirt. There seemed to be papers rolled up inside, but the lid was corroded and frozen in place.
The figure hesitated (for glass was rare,) then broke the jar. In the shade of an old apple tree he began to read the papers. They were made of fine vellum or sheepskin. The ink was homemade. He knew the handwriting…..
“…My family moved to this island a long time ago. Long before me or any of my brothers were born….
They lived in some other place once but no one really remembers what that was like. Poppa told me that they were called migrates or maybe migrants. Migrates used to travel around to do field work for Angelos. Back when the world was wide, before the great city-places. long before there was just our island.
We don’t do it anymore, travel I mean. We had our own fruit trees and fields on the island and never picked more than we needed. None of the others have ever set foot outside, other than the Old Man, me and Julio. But everyone knows that!
We grew beans and had a few pigs, some sheep too. Momma started a green-garden when she was alive, which I keep up. There was a grove of apple trees behind the house and we spent much of fall drying and preserving. We made pots from clay in the river and baskets from reed; I spent entire days pumping the bellows when we fired the pots.
Momma had strange clear pots made out of glass. They had the word Mason written on them in raised letters. We can’t make things like that and I always wondered where they came from. Poppa said that we couldn't make real glass. It was a tragedy when we broke one of those.
Julio and I were close to the same age; we were the youngest kids on the island. We spent a lot of time together when we were not at school, swimming in the little pond, exploring, doing the kinds of things that kids do.
There were six others attending the school-house back then, and our teacher was the Old Man. His name wasn't “old man” but that’s what everyone called him. Poppa said that he was the one who first brought us to the Island.
He didn't look very old, younger than Poppa, but they told us that was much older than the oldest person on the island.
We didn't know too much about the Old Man, other than he was important. Some people said that if something happened to him we would all have to leave the island and live somewhere else, someplace bad from the sound of it.
He never spoke of his past very much, none of the older folks did. If you pressed them they would get angry and change the subject. The Old Man never got angry, but somehow the conversation would take a different track, you would forget about your questions. I always wondered how the Old Man did that — back in those days.
The Old Man taught us a lot of things. How to write words and say them back again, how language works, and how to do problems. Also more practical stuff like how to dry meat and grow things. He also taught us the law to never go beyond this world. That the old world was dead and going there would kill us.
I read about the past in history books. The books were old—falling apart and we had only a few of them. A History of the United States 1800-1900 was one. We had a whole set of something called Foxfire, volumes one through six which taught us how to live on the island. We had another called Bullfinch’s Mythology but the Old Man said that one was not really history at all.
I liked Bullfinch’s Mythology better than the rest, the people in it seemed more interesting than the ones in the old histories. More alive somehow. The story of Icarus was one of my favorites. I felt sad the first I read the story. I thought that it was not fair that Icarus fell when he flew too close to the sun. Poppa says it was justice and folks should pay attention to what’s important. They shouldn't try to do things that can’t be done. I didn't really understand what he meant by that.
Not like I do now.
We actually had a book in our house. It was called Sequoia High School 2034 and contained images of hundreds of young people. We got to look at it sometimes, but we had to be careful. It was old and tattered.
Once I found a book of my very own! It was forgotten in the place where we kept the old stuff from before the families moved here. There was not much left. Mostly junk. I found a bag of flimsy clear stuff sticking out of the ground. When I dug it up, low and behold, a real book that someone left behind and forgot many years ago.
I liked this book the best although back then I could not tell what a lot of stuff in it meant. It had big colorful pictures. I once asked how the pictures got onto the pages. Poppa said it was some old magic that had been forgotten. The Old Man called them photographs, which are made by a camera. He said the books are a waste of time, “there are more important things than mulling over the past” he told us.
One time I showed him the book found. I wanted to ask him about one of the pictures, A long distance away was a thing with frost on the top. That was the thing I wanted to ask the old man about.
He looked at the picture and told me to put it away. After the others had gone home I questioned him about that, I asked him if he was angry with me.
“No child’ he said and he suddenly looked much older than Poppa.
“Could I see that again please?” he asked.
I handed it over and a look of weariness went across his face.
“Do you understand any of this” he asked in such a low voice I could almost not hear him.
“Only a little” I replied”, “The title, says National Geographic and the book is written in English so I can read some of it. The stuff inside is so crazy!”
I showed him the picture again. The words on the page said ”OBJECTS IN MIRROR ARE EXCEPTIONALLY BREATHTAKING.”

He looked at it for a long time and at last said. “It’s a play on words, not really important. The thing in the picture is a car, like the cars that come by the island except this one didn't run on a track. A long time ago you could take a car like that one and go most anyplace. Those other things n the mirror are mountains. Like a hill except that the tops are in the clouds.”
He fell silent looking at the picture and slowly, closed the book.
“Take this back home” he said and I could see a tear leaking out of one eye.
“What’s the matter?” I asked.
“Nothing chica” he said in that low voice. “I knew this was coming. Your people have done something quite grand here but most of you will never understand it.”
I realized that he was crying. Inside; the way people cry when they don’t want to show it. He looked so old and scared at that moment. Older than the stark hills beyond the island. Older than the sun and the moon. He looked like the oldest man alive.
I felt sorry for the old man and hugged him like I would hug Julio after he hurt himself.
The Old Man pushed me away.
“I’m sorry” he said. “You’re lucky don’t you know that? It’s better if we forget about all of that stuff in the magazine.”
He saw my expression; that I could certainly not forget and frowned.
“You are such a pain! You’re young now, it’s hard even for me to understand.
His voice faded off and he played idly with my long black hair. A far-away look was in his eyes, like he was seeing things that no one else could see, and in that instant I thought he really could.
Then he blinked and saw me again.
“Please forgive me child” he said gently, “ This is my fault and it’s not fair for you. I suppose you’ll need to know more about this. You’re going to have to prepare yourself for…” He looked thoughtful for a moment again.
“Tell you what,” he said, “you bring me a different page of your magazine once a week. I’ll try to tell you what’s on it and what the words and pictures really meant; deal?”
We shook on it and I hugged him one last time but he didn't hug me back. When I left I noticed his eyes didn't look so old anymore.
He kept his promise all through that long last winter. I cherished this time I had with the old man. I’m not sure why, but I felt safe around him. Like he would never be cross with me as Poppa was sometimes. He never punished me like Momma. He would never throw a tantrum like Julio. Except for that one time when he cried, I never saw him show emotion at all. The old man told me amazing things about the old world and answered all of my questions.
Julio is the only other person who found my secret. He joined me at my sessions with the old man much to the old man’s amusement and to my dismay. Julio thought differently than me.
Boys can be stupid sometimes! He was more interested in what airplanes were or how old cars worked than seeing some of the places in the pages of the magazine. Julio said that he wanted to be like people in those other places. The Old Man told him that was silly. There were no people like that anymore. He said things were better here in the island. I could tell that Julio was not convinced. I have to admit, I wasn't either.
Julio seemed to have a different relationship with the old man than I did. To him, the old man was perfect, a hero. I told Julio that I saw the old man cry once. He didn't believe me.
This went on for the rest of the winter; until that fateful spring. Spring was always a happy time. We started to shuck our heavy winter garments and began looking forward to better food than beans and dried pork.
One day Julio and I were picking blackberries at the far north end of the island. If you pushed through the undergrowth you could get a glimpse of the highway. That’s what the old folks called it. They said it was a road but it didn't look much like the paths that we used. The highway was a wide silver ribbon, which ran as far as the eye could see. Another highway split off to make the island into a point on the north end. A third crossed the other two and formed the south face of the island several kilometers away. The old folks said that “the man” built the highways. People in other words, but not like us. ”Angels” they said though sounded more like Angelos.
They told us to stay back from the highways and never let the Angelos see you. “Don’t tempt the Law” they would say. “The cars will get you. You will be taken from the island and made to do horrible things. The Angelos eat children and make older folks work until they drop.” I thought that most of this was not real and that they just told us those things to scare us.
But the highway was a bad place and sometimes we found dead animals there. The law said that we should never touch the highway or try to go to the other side. There was nothing on the other side anyway, just crumbly rock and sand.
On that day we were picking blackberries, I was into the hedgerow where I found a particularly good blackberry bush. I could also see the highway and the whizzing traffic. The cars came by so fast that you could hardly tell what color they were, they were faster than birds or the leather balls that the older kids would throw when they play baseball. Faster than the meteorites you can see on a cold clear winter night and there were so many of them. They had a funny smell too. Like right after the lighting hits or in the winter when we made sparks by rubbing our hair. I was sure that no one inside a car could see me but was careful to stay behind some bushes.
One of the cars did something no other had ever done. It slowed and stopped, close to me. Close enough to see the clean lines of it, like a fat silvery raindrop, not like the thing in my book at all. It made a humming noise and was difficult to look at, its skin reflected light like Momma’s mirror.
I was scared and kept behind my bush. The entire side of the car slid open but there was only blackness inside. I got on my hands and knees to get a better look. I could hear movement from the car and a thin leg swung out to touch the ground, followed by another as a person got out.
It was an Angelo, I was sure of that. She had white skin, as white as calf’s skin or white flowers. She was wearing a one-piece flowing garment that was light green in color but changed hue as she moved. Strange looking sandals were on her feet. The oddest thing was her eyes; she had dark covers over her eyes which made them insect-like and scary.
She looked around hesitantly then, reached inside the car to pull out a dull green bag. The door closed and the car began humming, then it was moving more swiftly than a bird and shot out of sight, leaving the Angelo behind.
I was aware of Julio calling my name and the creature heard him too. She froze and I almost giggled. The Angelo was trying to hide. She didn't know that I could see her and that Julio would have no problem spotting her when he blundered through the hedge, which he did shortly.
I grabbed Julio and got him to be quiet. We both watched the creature for a while as she looked around the edge of the highway. Then she came over to where we were hiding and spoke to us.
“Don’t be afraid,” she said with an odd lilting accent. In fact she was speaking English, not Spanish like we did although the old man said we used a language that wasn't either. Spanglish he called it.
Julio ran away, but I stayed put.
¿tuyo novio corrieron dónde? Said the strange woman.
“He’s not my boy-friend,” I replied in English, “He’s my brother.”
“And you are a little braver than your brother I think,” she said. “Is there some way through these brambles?”
I got up and pointed to a hole in the blackberry hedge. She had to stoop and scratched her arm on one of the thorns. She cursed and I could see a thin line of blood.
“Well, let’s have a look at you,” said the woman. I backed down the path, keeping my distance from her.
She sighed. “Look, I’m not going to bite.” she said, “I just want to see what you look like that’s all. Now come on.”
She beckoned with her hand and I came about two steps from her. A thin metal band was wrapped around her right wrist with things on it that seemed to quiver, she fiddled with this for a moment and the black circles hanging over her eyes faded from black to transparent. I could that she had normal looking eyes but, there was something wrong about them. I could see patterns reflected in her eyes that danced; too quick to see. She touched me lightly with a fingertip. Her fingers had silvery pads on them. After a moment shook her head slightly and mumbled to herself.
Then she said; “I cut myself. Do you think we could go to your place and get a Band-Aid or something?”
“I don’t know what a band-aid is” I said, “but Momma has stuff she puts on cuts like that. It burns though.”
She smiled, “That sounds just fine; lead on,” she said and we started walking down the path.
I kept a little ways away from her. Not that I thought she would hurt me. I could outrun her easy if she tried something. I just didn't like her, she seemed friendly enough but she had an air about her, like I was not very important.
She drove relentlessly, pausing only to rest, scavenge or recharge, or when the pain became too great. The chronic pain was saddle-soreness. The acute pain was the cramping that struck her low every month, more viciously each time. She felt like she had two buzzing Tesla coils lodged in her lower back, never fully dormant, always just building up enough charge to dissipate in a prolonged lightning display of crackling agony. She was a late bloomer. She got her first period shortly after entering the shelter. There was discomfort then, but nothing like this pain. Mona had been less than sympathetic. She said the pain was nature’s way of nudging a woman to bear a child, but that Rachel had better get used to it as that clearly wasn’t going to happen.
She was only twenty-one, but she yearned for a child. She had long felt an emptiness inside her, but it took the perpetual road trip to make her understand what would fill it. She knew that part of the craving was hormonal. Perhaps her body was somehow aware that background radiation would destroy her fertility long before the menopause did, and that to secure its long-term safety her child would have to become self-sufficient while Rachel was still in her physical prime. Still, the desire did not fade even when the hormones did. She wanted to create something of beauty and hope in this corrupted, desolate world.
The journey through Central America was gruelling but without major incident. Rachel was adept at spotting danger ahead of time and adroitly avoiding it. Then she reached the Darién Gap and found herself in a situation she couldn’t avoid. A ferry crossing in a dusty little enclave was the only way to cross from Panama to Colombia. The ferry master was a brutish man, bald and muscular and covered in self-inflicted tattoos of such spectacular crudeness that they would be comical were it not for his thinly-concealed propensity for violence. Rachel did not want to trust him, but she had no choice. She traded her rifle for a one-way trip to Colombia.
She handed the rifle over. He grabbed it with relish, inspecting it and aiming down the sights at some imaginary target across the water. Then he smashed the stock of the gun into Rachel’s face. She fell to the ground dazed, clutching her bloodied cheekbone.
“I changed my mind,” he said in a menacing growl as he hauled her roughly to her feet and marched her into his crude adobe house. He pushed her into a chair and barked a command: “Tie her up.”
A timid looking woman emerged from the shadows and bound Rachel’s hands behind her back. She didn’t notice — or at least didn’t give any indication of having noticed — the pistol tucked into Rachel’s waistband, beneath her clothes.
“I like your gun,” he said admiringly, stroking the barrel of the rifle. Then he gazed at Rachel with a carnal look that filled her with revulsion and terror. “And I like you.”
He laid the gun down and took a step towards Rachel. She felt sick, yet also felt a little stab of electricity from the tesla coils within her. A biological urge that did not care for context. She felt a surge of anger at her own irrational hormones. Not like this. Even if he didn’t plan to kill or imprison her after he’d had his way; not like this. She harnessed her anger, slipping a hand out of the inexpertly tied knot, grabbing the pistol from her waistband in a fluid motion, and firing a shot at the lumbering ferry master. He went down with a howl of anguish. She was aiming for his kneecap, but had hit his crotch. The end result was the same, at least from her point of view. She stepped over his whimpering, foetal form, pausing only to retrieve her rifle and to kick him in the back of the head. Three more women ran into the room and flocked to the ferry master, sobbing over the prostrate brute. Stockholm syndrome, perhaps, thought Rachel. Or perhaps he had been protecting them from a worse fate.
She hauled her bike onto the ferry and set out across the Darién Gap with the lamentations of the women still ringing in her ears.
When she exchanged her bike and weapons for the vitasuit in Buenos Aires, it was done on her terms and with rigorous caution.
She says nothing. She is still stunned from the blow to her head. The grogginess fades, but she does not know what she can say to improve her situation. He bends down over her, his gaze lingering on her crotch and breasts before snapping to her eyes. He holds her face up tenderly and stares at her imploringly.
“Who are you?” he says. He speaks in a quavering English accent. “Why have you come here?”
Still Rachel says nothing. He lets her head fall to her chest and begins to rummage through her backpack and suit pockets. He emits a low whistle when he finds the harpoon gauntlet. He makes a gagging sound when he finds the seal blubber. His back and shoulders stiffen and he gasps audibly when he finds the torn photo. He turns to Rachel with wild eyes.
“W-where did you get this?” he says, unable to keep the astonishment from his voice.
“My mother,” says Rachel. “It’s a message from my mother.” The man’s face crumples, contorting rapidly as emotions wash across him, from shock to confused delight to disgust. He reaches around Rachel, giving her a wide berth as if she is toxic, and severs the plastic zip tie that binds her hands to the shower pipe. Averting his gaze, he throws a towel in her direction and leaves.
Rachel pulls the towel over herself defensively, covering her nakedness. She rubs her chafing wrists and quickly dries herself. She climbs into an oversized boiler suit that she finds in one of the lockers, then grabs the harpoon and slowly leaves the bathroom with the weapon aloft.
She doesn’t have to go far before she finds the man. He opens a book from a shelf in the recreation room and removes the bookmark. A torn photo. He sits on the couch, in the same position as he appears in the photo. He holds the two halves together and stares at the reconstituted image with tears in his eyes. He cringes when he sees Rachel levelling the harpoon at him.
“Please, put that down,” he says, turning his head so as not to look directly at the vicious barb. “I’m sorry for…I’m sorry. I didn’t know who you were.”
“But you do now?” she says slowly, digesting the implication. “Who are you?”
He looks stunned. “My God, she never told you? I’m Victor. Rachel, I’m your father.”
Rachel slowly sinks into the armchair facing Victor, staring into his eyes, glassy with tears. He proffers the two halves of the photo. She lays the harpoon down on the table and takes the fragments. When she joins the halves together, three details strike her with hammer blows.
The first is the presence of a young, smiling Mona, sat on the couch next to Victor with her head resting on his shoulder.
“You were conceived on the night this photo was taken,” says Victor. “Maybe that’s too much information, but from the sounds of it you’ve been given none at all. We were celebrating a victory. Or what we thought was a victory. Mona found out she was pregnant a month later, then left as soon as she could. I sent letters to you both for years. I guess she never gave them to you.”
The second detail of note is the metallic object in Victor’s hands. It’s a beer keg. This isn’t a photo documenting the device that can save humankind. It’s a snapshot of the most isolated house party in the world. Next to Mona is a fellow scientist with a goofy grin and hair like a bird’s nest. He wears a t-shirt bearing the slogan: “Scientifically speaking, alcohol is a solution.”
It’s not the solution Rachel was looking for.
The most obvious detail is that the message Rachel had thought to be an instruction from her mother is but a fragment of a phrase. The full message is:
What folly have we done? Now only
time will tell. It is done, and it can
never be undone. May God save us all.
Now, too late, it is obvious to Rachel that the message was never intended for her. She lets the photo drop from her hand to her lap. Shoulders sagging, she looks forlornly at Victor.
She asked me a lot of questions on the way. How old I was, how many people were in my family and how long we had been in the island. She seemed surprised at my age but didn't say why. I asked her if she was an angel and she gave me a thin smile.
“Sort of,” she said. “I’m a lawyer. A guardian angel I suppose.”
We came out of the woods and walked down the dusty road to the houses. When we came to the school shack, I saw the Old Man come outside. The woman stopped, without a word she walked over to the Old Man and embraced him.
“Oh my god,” he said. “What are you doing here? What do you want?”
The woman looked sideways to me and said something quietly to the old man who turned white, almost as white as she was.
“That’s impossible” he said, “how?” The woman looked at me again. The Old Man turned and said “vamanos chica; I need to talk to this lady.”
I went, but burning with curiosity I hid under the old man’s house where I could hear them speak. They spoke in the English tongue so it was difficult for me to understand but, the old man taught us enough.
“How much do they know” she asked.
“Not much” he replied
“You've been busy, that little girl out there…” she said
“Oh shut up, what do you care?” He said abruptly. “It’s none of your business.”
“We tried to contact you over the net, you should keep your links active, especially now,” she said.
“Darn straight; I shut them down,” he said. “Couldn't stand to watch any more! I knew the Catalina offensive was a dumb idea.”
Than the old man started to raise his voice, “You were supposed to leave me alone!” He said.
“We did” said the woman. “We made an agreement; remember?”
But the old man was babbling, almost desperately.
“God damn it! You are not supposed to be here!” he said, “these people; they don’t know about longevity and that social conditioning bullcrap. Can’t we just have a little peace?”
“How is this different?” said the woman “You built this place with short-timers; you keep them ignorant like a bunch of pets. You've been training them all these years, for what?“
“Because” he answered, “I wanted to! That’s all you need to know, that’s all you’re entitled to know. “
He was silent for a moment, then in a soft voice he said.
“I built something better than that stupid empire my father built. I created a people with dreams, real ones. Not like the freeze-dried, online-concentrated zombiefied society out there.”
He continued. “These people dream of having a few children and getting a good harvest in. They’re like we once were, simple and focused on important things. You can take that place you came from and just—”
“—You have to go back you know”, she said. “Your father is dead and you’re next in line. Your faction needs you, your leadership and your name.”
“The hell with it, let it fall” he said, “to hell with all of them, do you think I care?”
“You care, you have to care” she snapped. “This is bigger than you, me or your family; we’re on the verge of pushing them back and ending this conflict. A second chance! You have to care about that at least. Remember your father’s dream?”
“What?“ said the Old Man. “That nonsense about making his space colonies self sustaining? What utter crap!”
“No, we are close,” she said. “Just a few more years, but the whole thing is about to get wasted.”
”Not my fault, not my problem” he mumbled.
There was silence for a moment and then she said. “Do you care about them?”
“What?” he asked.
“Do you think the others will spare your little pets? They can’t hide you know. What do you think is going to happen? You believe your sibs will protect them? They’ll be collected inside a month. Your father allowed this indulgence so long as you agreed to return in case something happened. He’s calling on you now and so are they.”
There was a long silence.
“When do we leave?” He asked.
“Now Elder” she replied in a soft voice, almost a whisper.
I crawled out of from under the Old Man’s home and ran to find Julio. He was with Momma and Poppa who were looking worried.
“Momma” I cried, “The woman from the car, she’s taking the Old Man away!”
Momma and Poppa looked at each other for a moment. Momma collapsed in a chair and began sobbing. Poppa consoled her for a while when suddenly she grabbed him by the hand,
“Go and get the others.” she said. We have to stop him. You know what will happen if he goes!”
Things began to happen way too fast, Poppa went out and got as many people as he could find; there was a lot of talk and arguing but they finally went to the old man’s home.
It was empty.
Poppa asked me where they went and I told him about the blackberries on the edge of the Island. We all went there. We saw a car had stopped and the old man was getting inside. Our folks were getting hysterical. I was upset that the old man was going. I was confused. Why were my folks and the others acting like the world was about to end?
The others stopped at the edge of the highway. I don’t remember exactly how it happened. I saw Julio run out to the silvery car as it squatted on its metal track. He began to pound on its skin. Poppa tried to call him back when something large shot by.
Julio was pulled into the middle of the next track. Another car swooshed by and hit him. He was spun around and struck again by the next car and again by the next. There was blood, an unbelievable amount of blood. The cars kept going as if nothing happened. Parts of Julio came to rest across the highway and out of reach to us; he might have been a million kilometers away.
It was like a bad dream. I never saw anyone die before and now my brother! There was a moment that stretched for hours. I saw Poppa holding Momma back when she tried to lunge after Julio. The others fell silent and the only sounds were the snapping of the traffic as the cars shot by, over and over.
The door of the silvery car, which had not moved the entire time opened and the Old Man got out. He looked up and down the lane and, picked something up by the side of the road. A little basket, half full of blackberries, Julio’s basket, all we had left of him now.
The old man came over to me and Momma and Poppa, I sunk to my knees shaking. Momma and Poppa were holding each other and crying, the old man, handed the basket to them.
“You know the law” he said quietly. “Never cross the silver ribbon, never go beyond the island.” Then he raised his voice, in a way I had never heard before, a commanding voice. He sounded like someone used to giving orders.
“Let this be a lesson,” he said, “all of you must stay here. If you cross the road you will die. You can’t leave this place, ever. If you do you’ll—not be the same any more. I don’t want that to happen, you don’t want that to happen.
“You know how to live here, you have known how for a long time and you don’t need me anymore. I have to go now, I have duties and others need me for guidance just as I guided you. I’m going to a place where I can protect you. As long as I am alive, you will be safe from the Angelo’s.”
“You will take comfort in that.”
Quietly, just to me he said,
“Chica; don’t let yourself get too close to the sun when it’s your turn to fly. OK?”
He winked but I could see the old man in his eyes again, and the tears. He turned and walked to the waiting car, which consumed him in darkness. When I blinked it was gone.
That was a long time ago and many seasons passed. Things went back to normal. It was strange that the old man wasn't there. But we managed somehow.
Momma and Poppa passed away in due course and I had a family of my own. My husband was a good man, but the years were not kind to him. We laid him to rest under the apple trees, along with several of my children. Only one of my daughters is still alive and she, like me is youthful looking. Except for the eyes. He lives behind those eyes somehow and mine too when I look in a mirror.
But even she is beginning to show age. I fear that she will also take her place under the apple trees with the rest.
I teach in the same house that the old man used to teach Julio and the rest. We make paper. I’m teaching the new generations to read and write.
The seasons pass, people in this place are born, grow old and die. Generation after generation. Decade after decade. For more than a century now but I try not to count. Sometimes I wonder why my body doesn't grow old like the rest. Most of the time I don’t think about it. When people ask me I turn the conversation to more important things.
I wonder about the highway. It’s different now. Cars no longer zoom along its silvery expanse. Plants are starting to overgrow it. I've even seen trees taking root across the road in the wasteland.
A long time ago I crossed over to where Julio fell and made a cairn of stones for him. I've taken a number of secret trips beyond the island. I've found little except more desert. The last time I ventured very far indeed. I followed the road to where it seemed to plunge into the earth. I saw silver towers in the distance and something that might be mountains beyond.
The highway is an enigma, like the strange things we see in the sky. Bright lights, they move more swiftly than the planets. I want to find out what they are. I want to go out to see the old places and read the books. The books on the island fell apart a long time ago and only fragments remain.
In my little cabin I have a broken piece of Mason jar; I keep it hanging in the evening light. A little shard; like water suspended in time as if by old magic. It sends out reflections from the rays of the setting sun, reminding me of the strange glass and metal buildings I saw from a distance.
We don’t have any of the Mason jars left. Just one and I keep it in a safe place.
I will have to leave here someday. After the others have gone. To find out what happened to the Angelo’s with their silvery cars, to discover what became of the old man. I also want to see those mountains for myself.
But I have time aplenty and the planting is due, the Ramirez family has a new baby girl and the apples are just getting ripe…”
he wind whispered as the figure read the yellowing papers in the growing dusk. After finishing the man packed them away in his rucksack, and began walking again, following the silver ribbon.
To the mountains.
G Allen is a New Mexico based technical geek who’s been reading and writing Science Fiction for as long as he can remember. In between bouts of writing he provided technical services to a ponderous US Federal agency and enjoys hiking in the Western mountain ranges.
If you liked this story, please remember to click on “recommend.”

In the Mason Jar
Once the world was different.
ng dissent and rancour between nations.”
Victor has come alive in the retelling of this tale. He lowers his voice to an apologetic whisper when he glances at Rachel, but he often forgets she is there and his voice takes on a nostalgic, wistful quality, as if pining for days of glory.
“How did you keep all of this secret?” says Rachel. Her incredulity has hardened into angry acceptance. Too much of this tale rings true for it to be the fabrication of a madman.
Victor laughs. “We couldn’t. We didn’t. Word got out. Thankfully, it got out first onto conspiracy websites. We couldn’t have planned it better. When the people who were talking publicly about our cabal were also talking about the twin towers being destroyed by missiles disguised as planes using holograms…well, we heaved a collective sigh of relief. No-one took it seriously.
“We used strong cryptography in everything we did. Even so, I don’t doubt that intelligence agencies knew something. How much, I don’t know. Perhaps they thought it was not in their best interests to stop us. Capitalism was failing, domestic unrest was rife. Perhaps they thought that a new cold war would unite the people against a common enemy and stop the riots.
“They didn’t, or couldn’t, stop us from pulling the trigger. Hostilities between countries across the globe had been ramping up for years before our government agents simultaneously pushed for unprecedented sanctions. Global trade dried up overnight. Most importantly, from our perspective, the oil stopped flowing. We focused our efforts on isolating Israel and Japan. Little oil of their own, geographically isolated from potential allies, technologically advanced — they were our best hope.
“They did exactly as we’d predicted, pumping money into fusion research. Ostensibly they were rival projects, but most of the scientists on the teams were with us. They shared information. Six years later, they had cracked it. They had a safe, stable reactor with a staggering net gain. The five of us were here when the word broke. We leaked the reactor schematics to the internet. Our gift to the world. We celebrated that night.”
Rachel looks at the photo again. Victor and Arkady look overjoyed. Mona looks relieved. Min and Reza look more concerned than happy.
“What went wrong?” she asks. Victor slams his hand down on the coffee table with sudden anger.
“Human nature,” he says bitterly. “That’s what went wrong. It turns out that it’s much easier to start a war than to stop one. We thought that once the world had fusion power, the Second Cold War would thaw. We were naïve. We’d forced a global Mexican stand-off, and no-one was prepared to be the first to put down their weapons. All it took was one itchy trigger finger…”
Victor tails off and looks sadly at Rachel. There is a long, awkward pause. Victor doesn’t know what to say. Reparations for his deeds are impossible. Rachel is angry, but knows that retribution would be empty.
“I’m sorry I wasn’t there for you,” he says at last. “I wanted to come and see you, but Mona made it clear that I wasn’t welcome. When she first moved away her letters were full of hope and happiness. We vowed to be reunited when my assignment here was done. Each month the letters became colder and more bitter. I sent her this photo to remind her of happier days. Next month, all I received was the photo, with that message on it. I tore it up in anger.”
“You do understand why she wrote that?” says Rachel angrily, leaning forward and looking Victor in the eyes. Her hands grip the arms of the chair tightly. Her knuckles are white. “While you were pontificating in your ivory bunker, she was seeing the results of your — her — actions. The riots, the fear, the violence. Society on a knife-edge. She had to live with what she’d done every day. I can’t even begin to imagine the guilt.”
Rachel slumps back in her chair listlessly. Her anger is spent. It seems futile to hold onto it.
Victor wipes tears from his eyes and gazes at the floor. “I can imagine,” he says in a low voice filled with shame. “I was angry with her for years. Then I realised I was angry with myself. Angry at my own hubris. Words couldn’t do it justice, so I didn’t even try. I just scribbled an apology on that photo and sent it back to Mona. I never heard anything more from her.
“Then the bombs fell and we were stuck here. No more mail drones, no more internet, no return ticket home.”
“We?” says Rachel. “Are the others still here?”
“No,” says Victor bluntly. Rachel sits up, suddenly more alert.
“Where are they?” she says, her eyes darting towards the harpoon on the coffee table between them.
“Don’t worry, I didn’t eat them,” says Victor with a feeble chuckle. “I’m not that sick of fruit and veg. Rez and Min were always more conflicted about what we had done. Five years after we lost contact with the outside world, they couldn’t take it any more. They contemplated a lifetime imprisoned with the co-authors of humanity’s doom, and decided they’d rather take a long walk in the snow, Captain Oates style. Arkady followed them a few years later.”
“But you remained,” says Rachel.
“I had something they didn’t,” says Victor. “I had a child. I had hope. I thought of you and Mona and pictured you rebuilding, repairing the damage we had done. I had hope.
“I never expected to see you. I never dreamed you’d come. I dreamed that you’d find a place of safety, have a family of your own. And now…now you’re here at world’s end.”
Victor gazes into space with dull eyes, drained of hope. Rachel covers her face with her hands and gently weeps. A scraping noise fires neurons in her lizard brain. She instinctively reaches for the harpoon, but it is gone. Victor has it. He puts his mouth around the barb and presses the trigger button on the gauntlet. The harpoon fires through his skull with a metallic grunt, burying itself deep in the bullseye of the dartboard behind him. His body slumps forward, slowly lowering itself onto the table in front as the metal coil of wire attached to the harpoon spools out of the gauntlet with a whirr.
Rachel sits in silence for some time. The only sound is the irregular squelch of grey matter and viscera that drips from the harpoon shaft onto the floor. The iron stench of pooling blood makes her feel sick. She walks out of the recreation room and into the atrium. She stares at the window, at the striations of ice that have surrounded the research station over the years. Layers upon layers. An hour passes.
She strides to the bathroom with determination, and pulls her sheaf of maps from the pocket of her vitasuit. She marches into the recreation room. Her face screws up in disgust as she pushes Victor backwards and yanks the harpoon out of his face. She lets him topple to the floor. She plucks a handful of darts from the grisly board. Back in the atrium she uses the darts to pin her maps to the padded wall.
Rachel looks at her wall of maps. The Americas, at a variety of scales. She turns and walks towards the window with one remaining dart in her hand. She looks at the ice layers, the ash of yesteryear covered by fresh growth, and throws the dart over her shoulder.
Cover image taken from http://astro.uchicago.edu/cara/vtour/pole/dome/

The Frozen Tomb at World’s End
The numbing wind lashes across the frozen desert like an icy scourge, accompanied by a banshee howl loud…
Illustration: “Future Bar” by Ward Lindhout — Used with permission
We reached 1K followers!
One thousand and counting…
Yesterday, Apr 09, Sci-fi Short Stories Publication (SSS) reached 1K followers! We are very glad and thankful for all of you sci-fi fans and readers that make our audience, and for all of you writers that helped build this community by publishing amazing stories since 2013!
Deep Thought by Bruno Murai @ Deviantart (http://fav.me/d3h74i3)
The journey so far…
All started as a joke by me (Gehazi Bispo) when, in 2013, I had the idea of making a badly told parody of part of the The Hitchhiker’s Guide to the Galaxy, that I named 42 (English version here), and put it in a Collection (it was a thing at the time, and I created a lot of them). Definitely the story was not a success, but it was the first step towards SSS.
In six months after creating the collection the first stories were added, written by Hector Gray, Tosca Universe, Tim Maughan, Adrian M Ryan and Thaddeus Howze.
In the beginning of 2014 I invited Thaddeus Howze to co-curate the (yet) SSS Collection, and since, his gentle and effective collaboration has helped the Publication thrive.
Despite of the ups and downs, the last two years have been of growth with lots of writers being involved. Late 2015 we done a few modifications in the Editing policy aiming more diversity and standardization among the stories, and within few weeks some results showed up with the publication of the first two stories written by women in more than a year.
Now that our audience has grown to the thousands and made us the largest publication on Medium specifically dedicated to publish science fiction stories, we want to make sure that the SSS will continue to expand in all senses.
The road ahead
The Editors share the idea that the Publication still needs improvement, as a continuously process drove by its expansion. In this direction, big updates are coming in the next weeks, that will make this Publication even better for readers and writers alike.
We also expect you to give us critic feedback, suggestions and collaboration proposals, there is always improvements to make and work to do.
We want to ensure that the (currently) SSS will continue to be home of the best short sci-fi stories of all sorts by a close and collaborative work between writers, editors and the audience.
Caspar David Friedrich — Wanderer above the sea of fog, 1817. Public Domain.
Editor’s Pick
Here are some stories that I liked, and if you missed them I suggest you take a look at:
Falling Into The Blue
Gentle. Comforting. Almost like returning to the womb, as if he could remember the womb.medium.com
It all went south after South Africa
She never looks back, the way one does when what you treasure most is right behind you.medium.com
Sandfall
I remember that day like it was yesterday. It was supposed to have rained the night before and into the morning, but I…medium.com
NANNY
A fast fiction story on the memories we take with us from childhoodmedium.com
Nugget
An Experiment in Controlmedium.com
Starchild
A military leader’s unauthorized decision to destroy an alien starship presages a fateful expansion of Humanity into…medium.com
In the next SSS Letter I’ll make sure that will be Thaddeus’ turn to share his preferred stories with you.
Editors Guidelines
If you are considering to submit a story to the SSS Publication here are some guidelines from the Editors.
What we expect
We expect your best drafts for submission, and we are especially interested in works from minority individuals (e.g. women, black and indigenous people, LGBT, etc.). The stories must be a) original and b) your own. We will keep edits cosmetic, if necessary. Please try to keep your drafts under 6,000 words. Longer works need to speak with an editor.
Ideas which may help
Consider a graphic image for your story. It helps the story stand out in the Medium headline page. Subtitles or a summarizing sentence (that gives some information about the content of your story) are also encouraged. Editor’s recommendations are optional, unless they are about typos, and serious structural or semantic problems. No work that conflicts with items “a” and “b” (above), or makes apology to racism, harassment, Nazism, antisemitism, and all kinds of discriminatory behavior, will be accepted.
Onward,
Gehazi Bispo
Sci-Fi Short Stories Founder and Editor

We reached 1K followers!
Misty’s War
War begins with misunderstanding.
EldarZakirov http://eldarzakirov.deviantart.com/art/Hermitage-Court-Moor-in-casual-uniform-382400191
“Well this reeks” thought War Marshal Terrisium as she padded through the camp.
The name Terrisium meant “She-who-Walks-in Beauty-with-Extended-Claw-and-Blood-soaked-Fang” She was unshod; her claws were discreetly retracted, for the moment.
It was half-past midday; almost everyone was asleep except for the day-watch and a few menials. “And me,” she thought “head menial.” When was the last time I got a day’s sleep, one? Perhaps two twelvedark? I should be dreaming of better things than this!”
The sunlight was unbearable, even with thick filter goggles, the glare made her head hurt.
They were in an impossible situation with their backs against the wall. The buck-scum had taken another fifteen measures of territory the night before. At this rate they could be within artillery range of Pride capital in no more then five or six twelvedarks.
A few darks ago; messages were sent to the Pride Counsel; Our situation is dire, We need more troops” she said. “I need about thirty-six squads but I can get by with twenty-seven.”
They sent eleven.
Her next message was rude; like an offal pile after the slaughter of food-beasts. The messenger wrinkled her nose to the afterglow as she finished composing.
“You best think about terms for surrender,” she said. “I can hold this position for another six twelvedarks. My next stand will be in your council chambers.”
She would probably get the sack, but it wouldn't make any difference.
Terrisium exchanged tail twitches with the security rover. Passing the mess tents she saw that cooks were up working the dusk rations. A block of unappetizing meat was warming over a cook fire; Frozen meat using the new absorption-cooling systems. Their few live foodbeasts were hooting in the pens as she passed. Frail looking , they wouldn't be much sport, the council was keeping the best for themselves again.
Thankfully, she doffed her goggles inside her command tent. Sniffing at the status boards she found one of the scout parties returned early. Otherwise the lines were quiet. Terrisium moved through the tent flaps leading into the strategy room. Four of her Mark were present.
“Where the hells is Casson?” she growled as they exchanged tail flicks.
“She called the meeting,” said Mark Commander Thrall. Terrisium could smell that her adjunct was none too happy.
“She called a meeting, then didn't bother to show up? At this hour?” asked Terrisium, accepting a water skin and hooking a chunk from the food tray with one of her claws. Midday rations had been several dewclaws ago, but the support staff had rounded up some fresh chunklets, they must have slaughtered the beast themselves for these did not smell like re-thawed crap. At least someone could be depended on.
“I don’t know” said Thrall, “Casson had something to show us and make sure to wake you. I tried to talk her out of it, but she was insistent.”
“Get her in here now,” the War Marshal hissed, “And pull the charts of last night’s debacle, I want to see if we can counter the scum in the Niell region.”
Several chart sponges were unrolled and she inspected the trench lines. All she needed was a weak spot, but the enemy laid out their earthworks well.
She smelled possibility in one line; the scum were pulling back their second unit and now, only the primaries held the front. Perhaps if they got all the troops they could muster and sent in that fresh batch of conscripts, her regulars might be able to open a toehold during the fight and hold it, long enough to drive them back. At least buy some time.
Casson came into the dark room; her goggles still around her neck. and someone was with her.
They exchanged flicks, Terrisium could smell something strange on her adjutant. What was that? Fear? Conflict? And something else. It was a smell like none she had experienced, a creature smell, something like the Chosen but not like at the same time.
She knew what the other smell was. A figure in full sun hood and goggles. His stink filled the command tent like a musky fog.
“Watch!” She shouted, “take this scum out and execute him, away from the tent this time.”
“Casson! ,” she said. Tell me why I shouldn't have them do the same with you? What do you mean, bringing that—thing here? Have you lost your mind? ”
“Just one moment, don’t kill him, — yet” said Casson. She didn't have the odor of one going to the other side. She smelled of fear and something else, curiosity and wonder. That was the last thing Terrisium expected.
The watch entered to carry out her commands. She waved at them to hold.
“You! buck!” What are you doing here? What do you want? Are you surrendering? Don’t lie to me!”
The buck exuded an odor of amusement! He was laughing at her! Then he threw back his sun hood and unbound his tail, she could see who it was and began to smell of surprise in spite of herself.
“Pretty rude, don’t you think?” he said. “I need to talk to you. After I’m finished you can have your play with me, or whatever. I’m betting you’ll hear me first.”
This buck was none other than her mortal enemy, the scum War Commander Harrinic, The Beast of the Trenches himself.
They repaired to the War Marshal’s private tent, another tray of meat was passed around and a drought of mildly impairing brew. Terrisium was not above showing courtesy to so noble an adversary, even the architect of her current problem. Even though he was what he was.
Perhaps she could extract information from him, before he was stripped and thrown into the pens. That’s only if she was feeling charitable, she was probably going to have him skinned and mounted, a suitable trophy for such a long and frustrating war.
She watched and sniffed at the scum leader. He was attractive, other than his habit of speaking to her as an equal, Other than his habit of speaking at all. He was an abomination, an educated buck! The convention was clear, males were to be cherished and respected. They were not to be educated, that was only for the Chosen. Males had a special place in society; it had always been this way. Since the time of Aloof, May-her pads-be perfect-and-her-scent-clean. Males were inferior after all.
But the scum allowed them into leadership roles. And he came here, into his enemy’s camp, calmly licking his paws and fluffing his mane back into place. His musk was making her aroused.
But she was one of the Chosen and there was work to do.
“What’s this all about,”’ she asked. “You have about ten six-measures of my time.”
“First,” he said, “I need to lay down ground rules.”
She exuded annoyance, “you are not in a position to…” she began.
“Just hear me out ,” he rumbled smoothly. “You granted this audience, I have something that will interest you”.
“What could a buck possibly have that could interest me?” Ironically, there was one thing. She detected a triumphant scent coming off of him and suddenly she knew what he was talking about.
“Aw defecate, you found it, you found The Claw!” she growled.
He exuded surprise but controlled it and then became what? Neutral? No; He was showing amusement again! The scent of kittens playing with a ball of string. The bastard!
“Very good,” he said, “ were you wondering how we guessed your plans so well?”
“Urrrr,” she said under her breath. The sharp odor of rage began to waft through the tent. A vile, bitter smell, like burning flesh. The guards came to attention, their services would be needed soon.
“You know I’m probably going put you into the pens,” said Terrisium, “if I don’t let my staff play with you first. I’m only allowing this indulgence because…” She hesitated.
“You respect me?”
“Yes, be-damned!” She growled. “You — you've been a thorn in my side, for the past 2 twelve-cycles. You've dogged me and pushed me and now you tell me that it was because of the goddamned Claw? I ought to flay you myself!” Her claws were out now, their fine jeweled tips gleamed in the feeble light.
He was keeping himself in tight control. His scent was still that of calm, concealment. Like a mossy forest path.
“You may be interested to know that we only found The Claw a few twelvedarks ago, The battle of the Screamers Lines? The taking of Finders Den? The Whispering Lake? Those were mine.”
“Confound it, get to the point!” “You didn't come here to mock me!”
“No, this is much more important” he began. “I need you to promise now, that you’ll hear me out before making a decision;”
“I said you are not in a position to negotiate!”
“Really? Am I not? You are in retreat, you can only hold this line for another ten twelvedark and you know it. What do you think your Pride Council will do to you if you end up at the city gates?”
“Oh,” she said in mock civility, “you’re here to offer me a choice, surrender and you’ll show mercy? I don’t think…“
“No,” interrupted Harrinic, smelling of menace. A hard odor, like the draft of a nearby thunderclap. His claws slid from their sheaths.
“There will be no mercy,” He said. “Understand that if we take you and your people, the convention will be fulfilled. This has been a long war and my people are sick of fighting, — They need to… play.”
Harrinic relaxed and his claws retracted. “I don’t need to lead the final assault,” he said. “The plans are ready and I have competent people to carry them out. “
She was silent for a moment, then purred slightly.
“As long as we understand each other” she said; “ go ahead, but this better not be a waste of my time, I have people who would be happy to play tonight!”
“Understood,” he rumbled. “Remember the light show? It broke your last wave attack in the Haggled-tail section?”
“Remember?” she said, “the conscripts are still talking about it, you were behind that as well?”
She could detect a small amount of triumph coming from him and something else, something so unexpected that she had to keep an iron grip to not to show surprise. It was like sea creatures on a beach. It was hope! Why would he smell of hope?
“We didn't do that, we did not know what it was at first,” He said, “the thing fell close to us, only a few six-measures away, why do you think we pulled a clawmark from the Niell front?”
“A clawmark!” she thought, “That was useful information. This was becoming a productive meeting after all!”
“Go on,” she said and allowed a purr to creep into her voice again.
He ignore that overture and continued.
“We sent scouts into the area equipped with day gear,” He said, “the thing was large and bright, some stared at it when it fell and went blind. This could have been a weapon. It wasn't, at least not any sort we’d smelled before. In fact, the thing did not crash into the ground like a meteor, it landed.”
“Landed?” Terrisium snorted, “that’s crazy, flight is an impossibility.”
“Not impossible ,” said Harrinic, fluffing his mane again. “Our engineers …”
” …Oh fffft! Your engineers! Those kite toys are never going to… “
”…May I continue?” said Harrinic.
“hurry up then!”
“This thing is large,” he said.” like a building, squatting on legs, five on each side. The area was still hot and we found a number of plants which had been seared by fire. I had the scouts pull back to an observation point with instructions to remain hidden. They sent me regular reports, here! This is one from the first night.”
He pulled out a sponge holder and she sniffed it gingerly, they saw something all right, just as he described. She closed her eyes and ran the scout’s report; “it‘s like a building,” she read, “one hundred and sixty-eight point-measures across, round, vaguely barrel-shaped, with an irregular domed top. It‘s ’made out of metal, an unfamiliar metal. Not like the iron they made wheels and rifles of. Hundreds of chosen could fit inside.
And that thing flew? She thought. This was beyond belief.
She handed back the sponge. “You have my attention,” she said.
“My scouts reported creatures were coming out of the object, in the cover of daylight,” he said. “They weren't chosen; we thought they were trained animals. The reports made no sense. The creatures set up tents and moved supplies out. We didn't try to communicate of course. The scouts explored the encampment in the dark but the inhabitants never come out. Apparently they saw us because the next day, these servants erected a fence and blinding lights.”
She was fascinated despite herself, “Go on, continue,” She said.
“I need to show you something, before you go back with me, before I tell you the rest.”
“Go, with you! You are trying my patience me-buck.”
“That amused him,” she thought, but he pretended to be angry.
“I’m not your buck,” he said. “This is important, Do you mind if I –-“
She exuded compliance and he said “Casson! Would you please bring her in?”
What Casson carried into the tent stopped Terrisium short. It was this she’d smelled before, over her adjutants and the buck. Casson cradled something like a newborn, but this was not a cub. It was not a person at all howsoever it resembled one. Casson placed it on the floor and the thing peered at them. It was about one quarter the size of a fully-grown adult, but walked on all fours, it smelled like an adult.
“What in blazes is that?” she said, “a dwarf of some kind?”
The thing looked up and said “Meow?”
She was naked too. Terrisum started to tell her Mark to cover the poor creature when it began to nuzzle and rub back and forth between her legs. The little thing was sending out language but the odors were strange. It was making cub noises and sex purring at the same time.
“I've never seen anything like this!” she said at last, clearly exuding wonder and confusion. “I’m smelling something else on that — whatever it is, I can’t identify it” she said. “What is it?” she asked.
“We are not sure,” he said, “it’s not from around here we think.”
“What do you mean not from around here? Where the hells could it come from? You’re going to tell me that it’s from the flying building?“
She knew the answer before he exuded assent. There were stories about gods — angels coming down from the skies, and other things, terrible things, things with a sharp, vile odor.
The scrolls warned that powerful forces lived there, monsters too horrible to contemplate.
“By the holy pits and makers” she said under her breath. She felt fear, like the odor of a burning city, worse than that.
An odor like death.
They made a strange trio, Terrisium, the traitor scum and Casson holding the little dwarf. Harrinic insisted that they go without guards.
“You don’t have a choice, my dear,” he said and she forgot to chew him out for his impertinence. “If you kill me you’ll never know the rest.” he said. “If you don’t come—we lose, all of us. It’s time we put our petty differences behind.”
They made it to the border and waited, presently a small group of scum emerged from the ground, they’d been digging tunnels! “That explained the good intelligence, she thought, “
Down the tunnels they moved, unhampered by the pitch darkness, deep into enemy territory. Terrisium was taking a big risk. The sight of that creature, not to mention the way it had been mutilated. She had to know more. The things that had been done to the dwarf were an injustice which transcended tradition, unspeakable! It implied an evil that transcended the scum!
After a distance they came into a muddy trench, scum guards tailflicked their commander and snickered at her. She growled softly. The guards shut their mouths and played soldier, which was good for she was losing patience.
The people they encountered were both male and female. “How did they do that?” she thought. There was none of the chaos and disorder as the Chosen propaganda suggested. They smelled every bit as disciplined as her Mark.
They entered a bunker. Harrinic sent out for refreshments and the dwarf explored the room, sniffing and nuzzling around.
“So, what do you have to show me?” she said. “That can’t be the master of those — beasts you described”
“No it can’t,” said Harrinic, “I don’t think it’s very smart; she displays less intelligence than even a food beast or a newborn. No; this is something else. Do you want to see the rest?”
She sensed anticipation from him. “Yes, why the hells did I come all this way? Do you think this is going to end the war?”
He sighed. “No my dear, it won’t settle the war, your people will have to accept buck suffrage sooner or later. This will delay the conflict. We have more important problems than gender roles now.”
“Like what? Like finding out what spoiled this creature?” she asked..
“Are you sure you want to know?” He asked quietly.
“Of course I want to know,” she said. “Why are you feeling sorry for me, what is this all about?”
“I can’t tell you, you'd never believe me. Our guest, she can tell you.”
The dwarf, now curled up into a ball was watching from the corner.
“How” she asked, “that thing can’t talk.”
“No she can’t,” he said. “But she can tell you what you need, she can show you.”
“You have the Claw,” said Terrisum
They brought an old looking metal box; it was the same one they looted from the Mariina Monastery. No one knew exactly what The Claw was. It was said to have come from the sky too. It was a shiny object, a thin wand and people in physical contact with it exchanged information. Not like scent language. This was something deeper; the people understood things about each other. They could see each other’s memories.
The Claw was very old, from long before the scrolls of the Chosen, long before Aloof may-her-ears-ever-be-silky-and-her-teeth-sharp. It was one of the artifacts. Very few were known and only The Claw did something.
Harrinic was holding the box out.
“Go on, use it,” he said,; “ if you dare, but I warn you, it will change your outlook, it will change you forever. See this and you might even join us.”
“Not likely,” she growled, but took The Claw anyway.
The Claw was heavier than it should have been, cold, dead and metallic smelling. She was not sure how it was used,
“Place the thing on the dwarf’s head,” Harrinic told her. “Then hold on.” “Hold on tight,” he said.
She did and felt nothing except The Claw became warm, the little dwarf woke up and yawned, she yawned and suddenly she saw;
A giant holding a long thin wand to her head.
She was inside the creature.
The small-one was named “Misty.” Misty-who-lives-inside-the-rumble-cave-with-the-Providers.
She saw memories, pictures, scents. She was partner, friend, a companion of ..something….her mind shied away from the image, so familiar and that is what made it foul.
This was not possible! It was a Provider, her Provider. It gave her food and water, it comforted her when she was lonely and in return, she purred it to sleep.
But it had taken her womb long ago. When she was a cub. It violated her, spoiled her. Misty did not know what that meant, Terrisium/Misty did. It was revolting, appalling! Misty did not know what sex was; the heady scents, the explosive feeling and the hard scratching of one’s partner. The cubs! The pleasures of life were a mystery to her. Stolen by monsters!
She saw them in memories. Figures cradling her in their arms; she could smell their scent, so familiar. Terrisium forced herself to look, and almost pulled out of the contact in shock. They were horrible, demons, abominations. No wonder they did this to her — to me she thought.
They were tall. Taller than the chosen, long flat feet and broad paddle shaped paws with very long fingers. No fur except a little on their heads and tiny eyes. They covered themselves like chosen but she saw them without covering.
They were food beasts. Food beasts lived wild to be hunted in the forests. The Chosen grew them in long buildings where they could get fat and rendered into fresh food. Food beasts were convenient; they needed little care and could eat anything. They also gave sport when it was time to play.
But the memories of this thing were different, Misty’s food beasts used their odd five fingered hands to make things, food for her and scented candy. They doled out intoxicants in the form of leaves that made her quiver with excitement.
Terrisium/Misty saw her provider, looking grotesque in the bright light reaching down to stroke her fur with a horrible misshapen paw —
She dropped the wand and screamed. Harrinic looked at her knowingly as the stench of fear and loathing filled the bunker, along with the scent of pity, pity for her and now she understood why.
It was less than three darks later; the two armies stopped fighting and wheeled about to surround the metal thing. Mortars and artillery were sent from the capital.
“You have our full support and blessing,” was the word from the Consul, after Casson brought Misty to them.
The food beasts retreated into their flying building, abandoning their encampment.
The scouts captured one of the creatures as it searched for something in the scrub. It used a weapon that put forth a blinding beam of light. The thing yammered and hooted before it died. They used the Claw on it. A volunteer merged with whatever passed for a mind in this horror and found their “ship” was damaged, the monsters were trapped here.
“Good! “ Terrisium told her Mark. “I want them out, I want them to suffer!”
And suffer they did, once the two armies cracked the ship open.
“The creatures gave good sport, for a while.” Terrrisium wrote in her reports. “A few even had weapons, long claw-like things, no match for the claw and fangs of the Chosen or even the bucks. One had a firearm that worked on a different principle than our rifles. This was being examined and would soon be copied.
“Once they were taken outside” she continued “the monsters were pathetic. The creatures could not see in the dark. After being deprived of their blinding weapons they were no sport at all. But the feast was enjoyable, they had an exotic flavor, quite welcome after war rations.”
“Harrinic was a capable War Marshal.” She mused “Perhaps when this was over they could have cubs, stranger things happened. If only he’d keep his mouth shut”
“I’m looking forward to this,” she told him via a message sponge. “You were right, crushing to demons was more important. Our scientists are teasing secrets out of the demonic vessel. We may be able to build our own in a few twelve-cycles. There will be war between the Chosen and the sky demons I think. “I’m glad you and I are on the same side! Who could imagine that?
“Indeed,” he replied. “our analysis of the ship’s record suggest a nest of these things in our own solar system. Remember those flashes the astronomers saw on the 5th planet? Now we know why. We will go there when the time is right.”
“You may be interested to know” he continued “that Misty is getting along very well. I don’t think she will ever speak but she’s emoting normally. Right now she’s curled up on my belly, making me sleepy. “
“She certainly has a good appetite!”
G Allen is a technical geek who works for a modestly ponderous US Government agency and writes on the side. If you liked this story, please mash the “like” button. Or leave a comment. Or better yet do both!

Misty’s War
War begins with misunderstanding.
Source: The Japan Time/Reuters (Link)
Oculus Government
“Oculus Government” is a short story about the development of a software to automatically run government’s daily business through a self-learning, self-improving artificial intelligence. In the story two parties are fighting for and against the implementation of OG in an election campaign that could be the last one in history of democratic America.
“No more human interference in the Oculus Governmental System!”, did he shout when staying in front of the crowd.
“Traitor!” Thousands were yelling, others held up posters calling for support of his campaign.
He continued and said: “Humans are manipulating OGS and it can not be for the purpose of the institution to find logical solutions based on unlogic problems through our electoral system!”
“This country is based on democracy and the decisions of the people at the ballots! You can’t abolish the essence of our nation, outlined by our founding fathers centuries ago.”, somebody interrupted him from the left.
“Democracy and elections were necessary when tyrants and a handful of men had a chance to destabilize and terrorise a nation. Times have changed and if the people decides to approve the autonomous artificial intelligence on duty on November 4, 2036, then it has been approved through the ballots and in a democracy.”
Again the crowd was cheering, others were yelling. The situation was critical. Police had to divide the supporters of both sides, the supporters and the opponents of the US Settings Election here in Carnegie Hall in the heart of New York City. CNBC, CNN, Facebook and other media corporations invited New Yorkers to attend the debate about the future of popular influence on politics.
“States like Singapore applied an autonomous Governmental System like ours and failed, Senator!”
The woman who attacked Senator Eli McFarrell was his opponent and leader of the tech-sceptical group “Tesla”, Evelyn McTreinfyr.
“Zhihui wasn’t able to upkeep the wealth of Singapore and decreased the living standard of its citizens within a half decade by twenty per cent! It limited personal freedoms and wasn’t able to react on geopolitical issues like the invasion in Taiwan or the collapse of the regime in North Korea.”
The moderator of the debate, Jason Mullins from Quartz, a division from The Atlantic, nodded while the supporters of OGC’s autonomy showed their disrespect for the opinion of the Tesla-group.
Tesla, which was inspired by tech-industry-tycoon Elon Musk, who once stated his fear of too powerful artificial intelligence (AI) systems, represented Americans from every class like uneducated workers, members of the middle class and the rich. It initiated studies and researched on the dangers of autonomous actions through Ai systems since Ai-drivers coexisted with humans on the street in 2019 and replaced pilots in the cockpits in 2024. The Tesla Institute, based in Mountain View in the San Francisco Bay Area, next to the first AI-ran business in the US, Bay Supersoftworks, guided governments and researchers all around the world when setting up AI-governments and logged everything that happened. Well-known professors from all US-elite universities like Stanford, Harvard or UT Austin joined the group.
“Zhihui was a Taiwanese software made in Taipei and you know very well about the intruders from backdoors for hackers, as for instance PLA unit 61398!”
When Singapore installed its autonomous governmental system (AGS), Mullins reminded, this was in 2026, the AI decided to drop the agreements with other states in Europe, Northern America and Asia to fight tax dodgers, money laundering and other finance-related crimes which caused an outflow of money from money of European or American origin while money from Hong Kong, Taiwan or China flew. Singapore began to lose its importance as an important financial market in the world. The situation dramatically worsened when intruders, insiders assumed the secret Chinese hacker division 61398 in Shanghai behind the intrusion, leaked the owners of bank accounts with untaxed money — and this embarrassed, questioned the Zhihui software. As if this wasn’t enough did the AI introduce economic programs and initiatives to reduce spending after China invaded Taiwan and the Kim-regime in Pyongyang lost the power to a socialist government in a revolution. Instead of boosting the economy, Zhihui depreciated Singapore’s economy. Among other theses cyber security and geopolitical experts suspected China’s aspiration to become an important player in the markets behind the doom in Singapore.
“Are you willing to be liable for losses, damages or deaths caused by Oculus Government?”, McTreinfyr asked the senator and pointed at him with the finger.
“Yes, I am! Oculus is a product made in America created by the smartest brains in our country under a maximum security-level! There’s no chance that any spies could install backdoors!”
“You sound like a moron, Senator! Do you remember Edward Snowden? Julien Assange? Or what about Stuxnet? Nobody expected this could happen. But it did!”
“Turn it off!”, he said enervated and removed his augmented reality glasses which had projected a hologram of the debate on his wooden desk.
“Professor?” Her assistant stood in front of her, wearing jeans and a hoodie.
“Election is coming closer and our system is buggy and has too many backdoors for intruders. But in New York they are talking like it is a system that could manage the most powerful country in the world with a population of five hundred million and the second-highest gross-development-product.”
He didn’t understand what Professor Miranda Milligan wanted to say. The woman with the partly grey tailored hair, big brown eyes and a birthmark on the upper left of her lips was a brilliant woman. She graduated as one of the youngest from Stanford in Computer Sciences, studied neuroscience at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology where she became a PhD and later a professor. She worked on Alphabet’s first division for quantum computing-related AI products and led the development of the world’s first software for the automated management of manned missions to Mars. The AI called “Houston” automatically managed oxygen- and water-supplement for the international crew from ESA and NASA and for the plants on board of Helios 2. She left the company before men landed on Mars in 2025. A young startup was calling for experts in AI and quantum computing. The European company Leviathan GmbH from Geneva was working on a computer-government software. She was reminiscent to the day of her first arrival in Switzerland. The team contained the smartest scientists in the world. It felt like you are in CERN, just for AI-experts. They came from all over the world, even a bright young scientist from Morocco was there. His work mapped and coordinated the fight against all kind of viruses and epidemics in poor countries. Now they were working on a system to administrate multiple cantons in Switzerland, later the whole country and Liechtenstein.
While she was looking out of the window, Miranda continued to tell her assistant, Stuart Walker, what she was thinking.
“At Leviathan everything worked fine as long as the AI managed units within the country, the cantons. The federal government had an interface for the input to set up new laws if the AI and expertsin the units agreed to them. The people in the cantons like Zurich, Bern and others elected representatives in a communal assembly. If you were elected you were a member of the team that could influence the AI. It was the last frontier of human control on AI.”
But, she thought, humans lost control after Leviathan began to connect cantons and worked on a federal government entity management software called Tell after Wilhelm Tell, the guy who shot down the apple from somebody’s head. This is when problems arose. How does a software negotiate with other states which were run by humans? Especially the backward Germans had a problem. They were afraid of any technological influence and rejected any progress be it ever so small.
It became easier when Leviathan connected Tell to Zhihui in Singapore and later Taiwan. Computers understood each other, but not humans, despite of semantic analysis and unlimited computing power. The system turned into a disaster with the attack on Zhihui which McTreinfyr has mentioned in the debate.
Disappointed about Leviathan, she returned to the USA and began to work on Oculus Government for the Delphi Assembly Corporation in Boston, Massachusetts. She wanted the company to benefit from her experience and was successful. California adopted the first version of Oculus, Oculus Sun, New York and Massachusetts joined later. Within two years the federal government and party leaders approached DAC and asked for a demo of Oculus for the whole US. No pitch was necessary. Washington asked first after the success stories from California where Sun improved the water household, coordination of fire fighters and rebalanced the budget without an increase in unemployment.
Now they stay here, looking, working on Oculus Government and want to change a country that was founded by men with the intention to create a republic, governed by a group of individuals elected by the people. From now on, she thought, America would change. It wouldn’t be similar to “The Flying Eye”, a movie from the 1980s, “Enemy of the State” from the 90s in the same century or the “Watch Dogs”-series her husband played on his VR-device. This system, she knew, would go deeper into the lives of every single American and could become a treasure box for the FBI or NSA. She reminds a statement of the governor of California, Christian Murphy, who said, that he can easily trust a company like Google or Facebook, but not the state, because as a customer he can go elsewhere, but as a citizen you can’t go anywhere easily. He became an advocate of tech-companies in the Silicon Valley and, although he was the governor of the second largest state after New York, he denied to assist state and federal law enforcers to hack into devices of Californian residents nor did he agree on the setup of backdoors. Critics in the US, some in Europe and more in Germany, where he immigrated from, accused him of a double play. Once Milligan met him on a conference at Cornell University. He respected her, but she felt his aversion for her work. He would have been vetoing the setup of Oculus Sun, but his state adopted the software through a referendum.
“It’s time to go back.” Miranda rose from her chair and went towards the door she opened and spotted the huge hall with desks, computers, lots of people and tables with cups of coffee and snacks, vegetables, fruits. It looked like a typical startup office. And you would believe it if you see the brick-stoned building from the outside. Every single employee passed background-checks you’d expect from the White House. The order from the federal government lead to a layoff of twenty per-cent of the two thousand employees who worked for Oculus. Those, who had to go, participated in far-left organizations or were related to citizens of Russia, China or Saudi-Arabia who worked for government-related entities. Now staff consisted mostly of second-generation Americans, some Indians and refugees from Ukraine and Taiwan.
“How is it going on, Michael?”, she asked the pale, young man sitting next to a bunch of hardware-components. He looked up, appearing sick with his skin in his red stanford sweater, and replied: “Our neural networks will need more computing time if IRS is keep on changing details in their data tables.”
“Ruwan, call the Internal Revenue and tell ’em they should cooperate and not work against us.”
“Alright, Miranda.” The Indian guy with the nerd-glasses initiated a call through the command fields of his augmented reality communicator produced by Apple and began a busy conversation with the federal agency.
In this hall only a few employees worked. They were representants from the different teams working on the other levels of the Oculus building. And Miranda knew them all, picked everyone and reminds every resume. Not everybody graduated from top-schools like Stanford or MIT, but came from San Jose State University, Miami or Davidson College. The character of an employee was important. Nobody, she thought, needs a rockstar with an ego as large as the state of Texas, and assholes weren’t welcome.
What she cared about today was the compression of data-sizes without speed incision. Despite of quantum computing and 5D drives, Oculus Government requires huge server farms to store and crunch all the data. She wasn’t amazed to see Michael reacting on another complication. Of course the compression wouldn’t mean a change in the directory structure, but the technology they would use has to be applied on every single part of the software and to ensure, that current data weren’t manipulated.
Patrick (everybody called him Paddy) was in a tunnel while coding. With his bone conduction headphones we didn’t isolated himself from the environment, but he had the ability to ignore everything around him. Miranda knew this and had a trick to “re-activate” him for social interactions. The beverage dispenser ejected a green-orange bottle of Soylent Drink and served it to Paddy. He loved Soylent, right after energy drinks.
“Thanks!”
“How do you succeed?”
“Very well. We could reduce file sizes by forty per-cent. Maybe more. But I will need some extra time for the compiler-update if I can increase the compression or OG will operate slower as necessary.”
He opened the bottle and took a sip. “How much time?” Professor Milligan hated extra time. Every day in extra time would cost DAC millions of dollars and made the software more expensive for the United States.
“One week. Probably one day more.”
“Three days and a box with twenty-four bottles of Soylent for free for you.”
“Three days for three days off work during St. Patrick’s Day and a Kilkenny Six-Pack.”
“Agree! Give me a quick note on Slack every morning.”
“Aye, aye, boss.”, he said and continued to work.
His fingers were hammering on the keyboard. Paddy was back in the tunnel.
Sarah, one of the few employees who graduated from Yale, crossed her way. The young woman with the brown hair, tanned skin and small lips, worked in the prediction team. To achieve high efficient results from Oculus Government, or as Paddy called it, OG, machine-learning experts like Michael and Sarah had to work on algorithms to predict future developments. Nothing really predicted the future, but mathematical models calculated probabilities of an event occurring next. Those predictions could help to avoid problems and to pick the best or less problematic option.
OG, Sarah said, recently finished another simulation round successfully. At least one good news these days, Miranda thought.
Although still in development, a team is already testing the software, feeds it with as many data as possible. A special team called “Black Hats” tried to hack and to steal the data. They failed last six versions. Nobody expected that hackers would be able to intrude quant computers that fast. But the Department of Defense was convinced of the contrary when a group of hackers got access to the new machines and downloaded data for a secret stealth project called “Yeti”.
“Is another simulation running for the moment?” The simulations- or testing-team had an own hall, equipped with a huge screen that visualizes data from the software.
“Not now. We’ll let our data analyze the results and start another simulation tomorrow.”
“Wait for me. Send me an invitation to my schedule.”
The simulations room looked like the mission control room in Houston where NASA supervised and directed manned space missions. Many screens, a huge one at the wall. Everybody was busy, studying her data. Three employees were responsible for data security, others had a look on financial results, a special team was assigned to simulate other states for foreign policy. They knew about the challenge Oculus Government will face after its initialization. And the simulation of interactions with other states was highly important. However, they simulated other states with OG, too.
“Three, Two, One, Start!” The countdown was spoken by a computer voice. Instantly the simulation started. The speed was higher than normal. One real-time minute was day and the simulation would go on for 72 hours and simulate almost twelve years.
Miranda stood in front of the screen for welfare. She was able to see the screen filling up with letters and numbers, each representing a citizen or permanent resident. With her AR device she projected the screen on the clipboard in her hands and randomly opens a citizen’s file. The citizen wasn’t real, it was a dummy, but the virtual person’s data were based upon real-world data and rules.
The citizen, a mother of two underage kids whose name was Anita Gabriela De La Hoya, came from Tulsa in Arizona. A high-school degree, didn’t attend a university or community college, no criminal records. She is the daughter of an undocumented immigrant from Honduras. According to the data from welfare she receives food stamps despite of her job in a discount market where she earns $10 per hour. She recently lost her previous job in a fast-food restaurant. IRS records show some problems with her tax filing when she tried to write off her expenses for public transportation and bills from a dentist. A map showed where she has been in past. She wasn’t signed up to the so called Obamacare program.
Miranda Milligan was, like every time she was reading the summaries, surprised about the density of information. Every time you enter an institution of the federal or the state government you were registered and the software changes your profile. She swipes to the right again. A bad feeling spreads in her stomach. She saw a list of chances what would next happen to Anita.
Losing her job: 70%
Homelessness: 20%
Serious disease: 45%
Committing a crime: 5%
Committing suicide: 20%
…
These were there data for events having an impact on the citizen’s life, she read. She was scrolling down and reads about her next steps. The likelihood of a disease was high according to data from hospitals and pharmacies. So it is likely that she could lose her job next days for not attending at work.
It is likely that she will leave town northbound with a bus and help in a catholic church on Sunday.
Signing off her children from preschool is more likelihood the longer Miranda is watching the projection on the clipboard. One more minute and Anita lost her job. Data is changing again. The more Miranda was watching, the more she felts badly. The imagination that such a system is already at work, but less connected made her feel puke.
She kept on switching between the profiles, read the profiles and wasn’t able to shake off her feeling. Every profile, the mother from Arizona, the Asian widow monitoring his kids in Berkeley while pursuing a degree at the University of California or the automated trading supervisor from an investment fund in New York City, it was available and a part of every dataset was reading.
“ERROR” The message appeared suddenly and kicked her out of her thoughts. Data disappeared from the screen. Everything’s gone! The mother, the widow, the supervisor. Gone?
“There’s a problem with the Coding-Algorithms.”
“We must fix that,” Miranda shouted.
Sarah, confused by her boss’s reaction, agreed and went on to the AI-programmers.
“The Oculus Government software is a wolf in sheep’s clothing,” Jefferson Morgan said as he stood in the middle of his students. Everybody nodded and watched him. Jefferson was a so called universal-genius with degrees in law, computer science, neuroscience and philosophy. Grown up in Detroit, Michigan, the second of three kids in an afro-american family, was a member of “Tesla” and one of the most influential counter-AI-advisors in D.C..
His voice was impressive. When he starts talking, you can hear the bass in his voice even if you sat in the last row. The tight black hair didn’t cover the top of his head. He looked like a monk with glasses, but homely through his small lips and the nose.
“But if we don’t stop them now, democracy is history. AI shall help us, but it shouldn’t reign over us.”
“Professor, I agree with you on the danger outgoing from autonomous governmental systems and the risks of self-modifying AIs. But if the techniques already exist, can we escape its influence? A machine just needs to connect to other smart devices and they create a collective intelligence. We couldn’t stop them anymore, could we?”
“Absolutely. We are already doomed, but we have to find a way, how we can limit the impact of artificial intelligence. We need laws similar to the Warren-Clinton-Act from 2018 initiated by senator Elizabeth Warren and President Clinton as they restricted flash-traders from overflooding stock exchanges with partly manipulative orders. As you know, it didn’t prevent stock exchanges from tanking during the flash-crash-crisis in the last decade, but at least did it reduce the damages and the volatility.”
“Elon Musk once said, that, like AI-trading machines, autonomous governmental systems can carry situations to extremes. Nobody can imagine how AI will react, but if they act like flash-traders, they could goad each other and make problems bigger than smaller.”
“And what is worse, is the similarity to history. I think you know the way into the first world war? European superpowers were goading each other into war. Austria set an ultimatum on Serbia, Germany was ready to join Austria into a war against Serbia, but Serbia is allied with the Russian Empire and so on and so on. Now imagine a world of nations, each governed by a software like Oculus Government. Let’s think further and imagine, that one nation, maybe Saudi-Arabia, is threatening Iran on the Shia population in the north-east. Iran reacts with an embargo, Saudi-Arabia is blocking the Gulf of Oman and Iran starts an attack because it can’t export its oil anymore. But Saudi-Arabia is still friend with the USA. So what?”
Jefferson stopped and looked around. His students imagined the world he described. “But every machine has been programmed by humans,” a young woman said. “If we create rules like Asimov’s three rules for robots, can’t we prevent the software from running amok?”
“Ask Dewi Robotics. What did they do?” Jefferson was sarcastic. It was an open secret that companies like Dewi Robotics, Airbus’ Tiger Robotics or Kuilei Shenzhen produced robots that were created to kill each other — or humans. And the People’s Republic deployed robot units during the invasion of Taiwan. Videos, showing robots killing Taiwanese soldiers or rioting civilians, have been viewed a million times on YouTube.
“Even if we create those laws, nobody is forced to apply the laws. And there is a chance that somebody has his own definition of a human. If the Confederate States of America would have had robots, would they define an afro-american as a human-being or not? How about the former apartheid-government in South Africa or Rhodesia? They don’t may kill white ‘human beings’, but African ‘beasts’.
Another problem is the self-modifying AI. If a software is re-coding itself, machines would exist independently from human beings. It would be a kind of genesis for non-human devices. Will we know if future actions of our government will be determined to help us, the citizens? Or does it end like — sorry for the examples, guys — in Matrix or Terminator? Will machines make us slaves or will they erase us from earth?”
“It doesn’t make me feel comfortable with the future, professor.”
And he looked into worried faces. It felt like telling an in-patient that you couldn’t tell him what his future will look like.
“If you don’t like the future I have visualized here, you should vote against Oculus Government.”
He stood up with his tablet in his hands and says goodbye.
“See you next week, guys.You can join my next blogcast, if you like. I am meeting Elon and Evelyn today.”
Did he abuse his position as a professor at Stanford? He wasn’t sure. But his job was to educate the next generation of leaders and engineers. Often he compared his role to a chemistry-professor, teaching a class of ongoing scientists. He must tell them that they must be careful in their role as chemists, because their work could have unimaginable damages on nature if they release the mud into the water.
The sun was sinking beyond the horizon and caused a glow far away. A warm breeze from the east stroked through his face. It would be a warm summer night in Santa Clara Valley, but he had to go to the Hyperloop-station in Palo Alto, next to Tesla’s headquarter.
Capsules arrived through tubes and released passengers who arrived in the Silicon Valley. The local station has been established in 2022 and was one of the first public stations created in the United States. Today it is connected to Los Angeles, Chicago, New York City, Las Vegas, Seattle and Austin. But it didn’t change traffic that much as its initiators car-company Tesla or the private space exploration company SpaceX. But Hyperloop was a fantastic replacement for national flights.
Jefferson Morgan recognized his face in the metallic surface of the capsule before he entered it and sat down on a comfortable seat. On his tablet he’d read a novel during the ride to New York. It would took less than thirty minutes. It was still impressive if he reminds himself of train rides and flights in overcrowded airports.
Hyperloop used an air compressor and moved on a layer of air through a vacuum in the tubes. The reduced friction and air resistance let the capsule travel extremely fast. There were no concussions during the ride to New York. The ride was placid, some people were able take a nap.
“>Do Androids Dream of Electric Sheep?< by Philip K. Dick.” He read the book often enough to write a summary of every page in the book. Dick has written a dystopia about androids which look like humans and may have developed an own identity through something humans would call empathy.
Oculus Government and similar systems, he thought, may not have feelings or some kind of an identity. But what if they could develop one? At Stanford he joined a group which once worked on a self-motivated, self-modifying intelligence. It was created to train a keeper for mice. Genetic algorithms applied different strategies on different objects and learned about demands of a species. So it supplied food — they gave them cheese — and water. Those who survived the first development stage were participants in the machine’s own research. Although the team didn’t add any code lines for a nutrition analysis, the intelligence analyzed the food and the fitness of the living objects. So was it able to find a well balanced meal plan for a mouse. And this made them more effective while searching for the exit in the maze which was connected to the cages.
Even more interesting was the language approach. BabyBabel, a portmanteau of Babylon and the tower of Babel, was a project of MIT, Harvard and Stanford, made to record and analyze languages without outside help. Through its audio-input BabyBabel was listening to conversations in English. Developers were watching the code and the database. Within thirty hours did the software write own algorithms to analyze languages and to prepare sentences for an output. The first sentence after two days had been “This is a easy experiment.” Sure, grammar was wrong. But everybody was surprised how fast some lines of code were able to learn. It was unlike IBM’s Watson at the beginning of the century which crunched petabytes of data. BabyBabel filled its database with vocabularies, wrote code about grammatical rules, syntax and more. After a week and it was hard to find a difference between a human-being and the software, which, at the time, began to learn Japanese.
More surprising was the moment, when BabyBabel, now renamed Babe, listened to mice and, in a kickass-moment, translated conversations from mice into English. What they have said?
“The invisible master is scary.”
In other words, the mice complained about the appearance of the keeper who supplied food and water. It wasn’t a sensation that scientists analyzed and listened to animal conversations. In 2014, British scientists began the exploration of animal languages. But Babe reduced the time that was necessary to understand an animal. And it let Jefferson became a vegetarian after listening to a translated conversation between two chicken.
He jumped out of the capsule that just arrived in Manhattan. It was already dark. Streetlights were lighting and a bunch of cars was passing by. Through his AR-device he already called a black cab to pick him up.
“Are you Professor Morgan?” An old man with a beard appeared in front of him, standing in front of his cab with the Uber-logo.
The men changed some words, shook hands and jumped into the car. The driver, he identified himself as Harry, was talking about New York. He was born in the city and only left it once in his life for military service in Afghanistan. He spoke about everything, from snowstorms, 9/11 or the Yankee’s championship in 2024.
“I’ll never forget the season. In their last match I catched the ball Johnson hit for the homerun that made them world champions.”
“You must be very proud of! What did you celebrate more? The championship or the ball?”
“The championship of course, professor. Apropos ‘never forget’! In 2016 I was with my wife at a rally of former presidential candidate runner Donald Trump and witnessed his assassination. Perfect shot! Between his eyes! Easy to see that the assassin was a veteran. This is what you learn in Afghanistan.”
“Did you support him?”
“Me? Never. I was born in a moderate republican family. I would have supported Rubio, but delegates went to Cruz.”
The car stopped in front of an old building from the 19th century.
“Thanks for the ride!”
“Don’t forget to rate me!”
The cab drove away and Jefferson jumped up the stairs. A lady in a business dress expected him. She smiled, wordless did she guide him into a huge library with old books, bound in leather. The smell of the old paper was in the air and the spirit of centuries of an intellectual society residing in this room.
“Jefferson!” An older man in the sixties with grey hair and a tall forehead welcomed him with a hug.
“Elon, nice to meet you!”
“Jefferson,”, Evelyn McTreinfyr greeted him by raising her glass of water.
Elon Musk, founder of SpaceX, SolarCity, former CEO of electric car producer Tesla and supporter of the Tesla-group, was friend with Jefferson Morgan since a podium discussion on artificial intelligence. Both shared their worries about a too influential AI and tried to make people more sensible for the danger of autonomous machines.
“Let me introduce the others to you. You already know Evelyn.”
“Good job against the senator in the debate.”
“Thanks.”
“Mike Prescott, former member of the Economic Research Service and member of the board of the National Institute of Standards and Technology.”, Elon introduced a big man with a bald head and scarves on his hands.
“Professor Cheng Wang from the Cornell University in New York. He and other scientists advised President Ryan in the Presidential Experts Committee on smart technology.” An Asian man with short black hair and a thin face. Wang was a skinny guy from the west, but he already lost his tan. He must be living in New York for a longer time.
“Sarah Rosenzweig, a doctor from University of Chicago, she once worked at Boston Dynamics and its parent company Alphabet.” Jefferson knew Sarah from a meeting with entrepreneurs at Stanford where she mentored an African startup for smart farming equipment. She still holds a seat in the board of directors of the company, but does occasionally in the news.
The e-car-pioneer introduced the Stanford professor to other important men and women from different educational and administrative institutions from all around the United States. Thirty people came together in the library. Everybody got something to drink and a little meal. Thanks God it’s not Soylent, Jefferson thought and lounged on a couch next to Sarah. Though she was sixty years old, Sarah was a attractive woman with long, black hair and a warm smile. She worn rimless glasses that suited her well.
“Ladies and Gentlemen,” Musk began with a forced smile in his face. The crowed turned its attention to the guy who still was known as a genius and the second Thomas Edison and stopped chatting with each other. “Campaign is going on since three months. Polls from the New York Times and Politico show a standoff between supporters and opponents of Oculus Government.”
He stopped, took a break.
“But more important are the independent voters. More than sixty percent of Americans eligible to vote still don’t know what they’ll prefer. Six-ty percent!”
At least the election game didn’t changed. Parties may disappear, but people stay undecided before an election.
“Evelyn was so kind and initiated a poll to find out more about the reasons for indecision among voters. You may already have seen the summary in your inbox. Technology is too complex for the average voter and most of them aren’t sure if they wouldn’t benefit from a computer-run government after the automation of some parts of the government helped to make services more effective while it reduced the deficit. However, many people are afraid of software problems, bugs, hacker attacks like in Taiwan or Singapore. One citizen, it would be funny if the topic wouldn’t be so serious, was afraid that the future government would crash with a blue screen of death like Microsoft’s Windows in the 90s.”
Humble laugh raised the spirits, but immediately stopped as Musk upheld his finger.
“I don’t like to throw mud into our opponents campaign camp, but it is about the future of our country. We as experts must be able to explain the risks, the problems and the hazard for our nation. But we can’t reach everybody on the street or social media through our campaigns, through TV if we aren’t able to shanghai Oculus itself.”
“More do we have to signalize that we aren’t the Amish people of modern times,” Mike Prescott, the guy with the government-experience interrupted him. “Our opponents try to push us into the spotlight as tech-sceptics. Your participation helped us, sure, but it doesn’t persuade others that Tesla is a movement of tech-experts thats supports innovations, but opposes autonomous systems replacing responsibly positions.”
Musk agreed with him and explained his doubts about a spot aired everywhere on the net telling people that he’s experienced with AI-systems because of its importance during SpaceX’ missions to Mars. The whole flight from Earth to Mars, he proudly said, had been managed by a smart computer. But it was risky enough for the astronauts and the mission.
“Is running a country the same as a mission to Mars? Or let me remind you of another topic. In the second and third decades of the century lawmakers and tech-giants were discussing the responsibility of the algorithm driving the car. You all know the example of a little girl and a group of elder people crossing the street. Should the algorithm try to avoid hurting the group with older people and save many individuals or should it avoid rushing into the girl because it was younger than the old?”
Lawmakers and tech-giants like Google agreed that no algorithm should diversify by age, handicaps or else. Even Musk’s Tesla agreed. It was the only logical decision. A car that prefers to kill older people over a young one would degrade a senior’s life. Of course self-driving cars always wanted to prevent themselves from colliding with humans, but it has never been possible to avoid accidents by a hundred percent.
“This was a dramatic decision because of the impact a car accident has on lives of so many people.”
“But we are not only talking about the lives of American citizens in case of Oculus Government,” did Evelyn amplify Elon’s opinion. “The United States of America have a huge influence on the world. So it will affect all eight billion terrestrials. The software will control our weapons of mass destruction nobody was able to disarm till today, it can raise or lower the carbon dioxide cap for our industry or withdraw important treaties with our partners in Africa, Asia and elsewhere.”
“This is what we want to tell the people.”
“How?”, a professor from the south asked. “You said you can’t reach everybody through your channels.”
“Right, not with our current strategy. But we want to arrange a new debate with Senator McFarrell and the project manager of Oculus Government. We’ll ask clear questions, they’ll have to give clear answers.”
“So not a second BigMac-duell between Evelyn and Eli?”, the professor jokingly asked and referred to the debate’s nickname in social networks.
“No! Evelyn did a great job and she is still doing a great job, but to disrupt the line that connects Oculus’ marketing department with the people, an expert has to join. That’s why you are here. We don’t need the money from Silicon Valley’s greatest entrepreneurs, but the knowledge from America’s brightest scientists.
Elon, the attendees knew, wasn’t interested in fundraising to reach his goals. Actions weigh more than dollars and so did Tesla also became a think-tank and super-pac. Its power didn’t come from money, although he used his multibillion dollar wealth to keep this movement alive independent from others influence. He wouldn’t like to know donations from companies in Tesla like banks once did when they supported presidential candidates.
“We’ll have to go into details to clarify open questions, to define a vocabulary so that we have a clear speech. Every American should be able to follow us.”, he said and in his face Jefferson, who shared a view with Sarah, recognized the man who, in his forties, had the spirit of a teenager and made him dreaming of a world when everybody would be able to fly to the moon, to Mars and everywhere where you wanted to be.
Jefferson took a note on his tablet and forwarded it to his husband. “It could be late, don’t wait for me.”
An alert yanked Miranda out of her dreams. The sound, a high note, went to the core and came from her work phone. Her eyes, wide opened, looked into the emptiness of her bedroom. It was dark, just the moon threw his blue-white shine onto the sideboards.
After few seconds she took the phone and answered the call.
“Yeah?”
“Professor Milligan, it’s Sarah. We have a serious problem!”
“What happened?”
“I shouldn’t tell you on phone. Come fast!”
Sarah didn’t sound like she was getting mad. Normally she was relaxed, rational, but never emotional.
Quickly Miranda Milligan picked her backpack, a cap to cover her unstyled hair and walked to her car. She let her autopilot drive her to the headquarter. Spotlights surrounded the entire building so that it looked like a golden cage.
The closer she got to the simulations room, the noisier it became. More than twenty employees stood in the room, discussing, watching, swearing and hammering on the keyboards.
“Sarah!”, Miranda shouted, overwhelmed by the impressions from the scene, as she spotted the woman.
“Miranda, good to see you. The software locked us out of the source-code and file-management…,” Sarah began to explained before she was interrupted by her boss.
“We already knew the problem.”
“Yes, but it occupied several servers. We aren’t able to shutdown the software or to remove it from space.”
“Did you…?”
“Try to turn out the server? Sure, but it didn’t work. As soon as the servers were connected to the energy network again, Oculus Government continued operating.”
“Who tried to infiltrate the system?”, Miranda asked to make sure her best men and women did everything to get back control over the software.
“Paddy, Dmitry, Linda, Hareesh, everybody. But the more we used to get into the system, the more it identified our efforts to get access to the core as an attack. And the self-modifying units began to recode its security mechanisms. It has built an own iron curtain.”
Self-modifying units. These were files with code, written to create an autonomously acting agent able to write own code to improve the system. Delphi Assembly’s plan was to make Oculus safer by eliminating the human factor in security software. Other units helped at every stage of development to speed up the coding process. They replaced up to two thousand developers and made the development safer by now.
Miranda Milligan remembered the simulation and how she explored several citizen profiles. She wanted to know how the simulation was going on after the disconnection from human interference.
“At 2AM Oculus Government seemed to have changed its algorithms for economic policy making and devalued the dollar.”
She looked at the clock at the wall. Now it was 3:40 in the morning. Almost a third year was gone since the change. “How did it change the simulated world?”
“The devaluation caused a reduction of unemployed workers, but the devaluation triggered lower growth expectations for exporting countries in Europe and Asia. The global economy is in a downfall. Now most of the actions try to apply Keynesian economics.
On her tablet Sarah was able to show her what’s going on through the log.
Then there was a longer loading time. A few seconds. Suddenly the virtual government initiated a row of new laws, forcing unemployed members of the Latino and the Afro-American community to do compulsory work while White and Asian citizens weren’t affected by the laws.
 “What the hell?” Miranda was swearing like a sailor.
“It must have been analyzing demographics of unemployed.”
“This is discrimination!”
Sarah agreed and looked at the screen as she got an idea. Like the Chinese with Zhihui, they had installed a backdoor if somebody would capture the software. She ran to Saleeh, an Iraqi developer who participated in the creation of the backdoor.
“Can you access it?”
“Inshallah!”, he said and began to type lines of commands into the terminal.
Everybody was hopefully looking at Saleeh’s screen and the dashboard at the wall next to the larger screen.
Others tried to stay calm, were hiding their worried faces behind her hand in a thoughtful position. Minutes were passing by. The only noise everybody was listening to were the sound of fingers hitting a key on the keyboard. Tic, tic, tic, tic — a loud tic when Saleeh hit >enter< — tic, tic, tic, TIC!
“Miranda, the software is ignoring constitutional rules. Do you know what it means?”
She didn’t like the thought, but Miranda Milligan agreed with Sarah. Democracy and freedom would be history. Every government would worry about the consequences, but OG would be installed forever.
“Backdoors have been eliminated!”, Saleeh said. A murmur went through the crowd. The AI learned fast enough to lock the backdoors. Ironically it is what Oculus had to do to if they wanted to keep Chinese hackers out of the government’s networks.
Sarah, unwilling to give the simulation up, got an idea. It would be a radical idea, but probably necessary. What if they would create a hack-bot based on self-modifying AI to hack into the software?
But nobody could imagine that it would be successful.
“Due to quantum-computers, we need days, maybe weeks, because of the self-modifiers in OG itself,” Saleeh said. And another problem could have been Paddy’s file-compression. This could make introduction into the system harder, let need a hack longer by the factor five.
Miranda knew, what it did mean. They have to destroy the servers, because they were useless for further simulations if the current simulation developed its own mind and can’t be eliminated from server memory.
“Let’s call our data center in Oregon.”, she said. Everybody understood. It would mean the end for up to 10,000 quantum-servers in a data center on a high-security base somewhere in Oregon.
The night was over without further complications. Every data shown by OG disappeared from the screens and the manager of the Oregon data center reported, that federal agents seized the servers and sent them to a facility to destroy them.
The team was depressed. They didn’t match their schedules anymore, missed milestone by milestone and now OG locked them out. Nobody knew how it would go on. The system was different to Oculus Sun. It was revolutionary, based on newest achievements in science and made to be safe. The incident with the AI had to be reported to the executives of DAC. Everybody knew, that it wouldn’t take a long time until they would call Miranda. Everybody was watching when she had an AR-call. Nobody knew what they are saying, but it’s no secret that it wasn’t a harmonic call.
“We have to finish the development in time!”, Brian Mitchell, chief executive officer of DAC shouted.
Milligan saw the projection of his body in front of her, done by her classes with an integrated electric glasses, with several, colored layers. It was like Brian stood right there in her office. The sound from his voice came from the speakers which have been integrated in the walls.
“Then I’ll need more developers. We can’t work around the clock. These guys,”, she said, pointing at the men and women outside of her office “are already working for ten, twelve or more hours, some sleep in the office’s nap rooms.”
“You know that we can’t hire more engineers! We spent more than twice of the budget and the process to sponsor visas and to screen potential employees lasts to long. It must be manageable before the day of inauguration.”
A woman, Shilpi Borse, joined the conversation. She wore a black blazer with a logo-pin of DAC over her heart. She, the executive vice president of product, was the connection between Miranda and the executive officers of DAC.
“The federal government of the United States and our company would face a dramatic damage of reputation after the American people voted for Oculus Government and we aren’t able to deliver the software the people voted for.”
“The problem,”, Miranda Milligan tried to explain, “isn’t the code itself, but the AI as a high risk for national security. Did Hannah told you what happened?”
“The AI locked you out.”, Brian soberly then said.
“Yeah!”, she answered in her native Texan dialect. “The AI was acting without any control and would start a fight in an empty house!”
She waited a while before she continued. “We can’t fully eliminate the risk of an autonomous computer government if we keep the self-modifying bots alive.”
“Miranda, it was you who proposed the bots! It was you who said it would make Oculus safer!”
Brian was agreed, she knew. She pitched her improvements to Shilpi who convinced the CEO later. Shilpi’s reputation in the company was at risk, but also was the national security.
“We’ll work on it, but I have to underline our demand for more engineers and experts in AI development.”
“I don’t promise anything!”, Shilpi replied and left the conversation.
“I’ll approach the government. However, don’t count on Washington.” The company’s CEO, who could become the most powerful business leader in the world, was grim. Despite of the distance between them, Miranda was able to feel it.
“There’s one more thing, Miranda.”, he interrupted the silence. “Our opponents asked for another debate and want to challenge you together with senator McFarrell. They want to talk to an expert.”
“Who do you want to join the senator?”, she asked, though she already knew he wanted to pick her.
“You! You are the project manager, a well-known scientist and know everything about Oculus.”
“Thanks for considering me, but as you mentioned a minute before, we have to hurry.”
“You have no choice. This is a multi-billion dollar project funded by the government and we have to convince the people as good as we can to win the election.”, he powerfully said.
“You want me to convince the American people — whites, latinos, afro-americans, asians and others — after I witnessed that OG created a two-class-society, forcing latinos and afro-americans to work if they are unemployed just because of barred ways to a better life after detention for smoking pot?”
“It’s your job to fix it and it is your job to represent our company. You’ll find the details in your planner. Call me if you have further questions or updates.”
The projection disappeared, the conversation was over.
“Screw you!”, she sworn and left the office.
“Tonight live on CNBC, CNN, Facebook and Quartz we proudly present the third debate about the implementation of an artificial intelligence as our government between senator Eli McFarrell from Kentucky and professor Miranda Milligan as supporters of the Oculus Government system and Evelyn McTreinfyr from Texas and Professor Jefferson Morgan from Stanford University in California as representatives of the Oculus-opposing Tesla-group.”
Jason Mullins, who also moderated the previous debate, introduced his guests to the the visitors of the debate which CNN hosted in the Mission Bay Conference Center in San Francisco. Among the attending guests Elon Musk has already been spotted by the cameras and guests. He didn’t appear on stage, but interested to follow the debate live in the conference center.
“While Brian Mitchell, CEO of the Delphi Assembling Corporation, calls Oculus a blessing for the United States, Tesla sees the heritage of our founding fathers in danger. Elon Musk, Tesla’s largest supporter, sees world peace at risk if the people chooses Oculus at the ballot box”
Miranda didn’t feel well in her position. Last night she spent hours thinking about the past weeks and months and what she has seen in simulations. Newer tests after the disaster haven’t been better. The AI acted like a bully on high-school, pressed against nations not willing to align with rules and views the AI-government had. And again it locked engineers out of the software’s code. They dumped enough quantum-servers to run Oculus Sun in the European Union.
“Senator McFarrell, you are a supporter of the Oculus Government, but Mrs McTreinfyr countered your optimism with examples from Taiwan and Singapore. Are you still so optimistic about Oculus Government?”
The senator, sitting on a red armchair, fold his hands and smiled.
“Thank you for the question, Jason. Yes, of course, I am. Oculus Government is a software created by the brightest software engineers in the world. By the way, our security agencies made a deep screening of alien engineer’s backgrounds so that nobody is working on OG who could be a threat to our national security.”
“Mrs McTreinfyr, you are from Texas and Texans are known as more conservative, traditionalist people. These are the values people associate with Tesla. Are they right?”
Evelyn laughed. She knew the prejudices on her origin.
“No worries, Jason, I don’t hold cattles in my garden,” she jokingly said and the people began to laugh. “I didn’t grow up like a typical girl from a rural county in Texas. My father was a southern democrat, working in the oil industry, later for an electronics supplier and my mother was a biologist and was liberal in her opinions on politics. As for Tesla, we got our name from Elon Musk who everybody knows. And Elon was and still is a pioneer. We don’t oppose progression such as the Germans or French people, but we don’t want to give up our freedom to vote a government.”
Musk, keeping an eye-contact with Evelyn, nodded. After the meeting in Manhattan the group exchanged ideas online, but they knew how difficult it can be to hit a homerun.
“Senator, the Tesla-group warns, that the software could trigger a violent conflict because of a reckless, less empathetic behavior. With respect to this warning, and we know that Oculus is not human, can you stand your ground if young Americans would have to go to war?
The crowd applauses, reminded itself to the phony reasons for war in Iraq.
“Of course I understand the position,”, the senator said and address himself to the audience. “Nobody wants to fight in a war, no family wants to lose a father, husband, brother or son. War is a human behavior…”
And fooling yourself is a typical behavior for politicians, Miranda thought.
“…and a computer system acts logically. There’s no ulterior motive, no second Vietnam or a second search for weapons of mass destruction in Iraq.”
“But can Oculus Government protect our national interests in the world? Can it stand for human rights?”
Good question, she thought. Miranda feels herself reminded of the latest simulations. Neither did she expect any concessions from the senator nor did she doubt that he doesn’t believe in what he is saying to the American people.
“This is possible. Listen, I am in an open exchange with Delphi Assembling Corporation. And the engineers carved the principles of the republic into the code of Oculus Government.”
The Tesla-supporters booed while their opponents applauded and Elon turned his head to have an impression from the scenery, Evelyn was shaking her head.
“Mrs McTreinfyr, could you please tell us what’s on your mind?”
“Can a software protect our values and views like democracy and freedom, if criminal or government hackers try to manipulate our computer government? I’ve mentioned the examples from Singapore and Taiwan in our last debate. This can happen again.”
Morgan joined the conversation and pledged to act carefully when letting an artificial intelligence run a country.
“Excuse me”, the senator interrupted him, “but wasn’t it SpaceX, the company of your supporter Elon Musk, who applied an artificial intelligence in its spaceships on the flight to Mars? Wasn’t it the car-producer Tesla who introduced automated driving?”
Supporters of Oculus stood up for standing ovations, shouting at Elon Musk, who they call an enemy of progression.
“He did, of course!”, Morgan answered. “But it makes a difference if a software decides whether a car should prefer to crash into a crowd of kids or into an old woman, or if a software makes decisions that have a direct impact on the life of an eight headed crew or if a software makes decisions that has an impact not only on the American people, but also on the whole world?”
“Miranda, I think this is your turn.”, the senator asked her to assist him with her knowledge.
“Oculus is a fundamental breakthrough in the development of smart software encryption. It uses bots who are watching every kind of attack on the software, spots every try to manipulate the software and…” She stopped. The professor damned the moment because she was covering a massive problem with the software’s security.
Brian was sitting in his office, following the debate through his goggles and was slugging drink by drink. He’s never been so nervous. Of course he knew about the latest results from the simulations. The development costs climbed up to a hundred and fifty billion dollars.
“Go on, bitch!”
“…and it is modifying itself to erase the leak.”
“How about the empathy of Oculus?”, Jason repeated Morgan’s question.
“The software behind Oculus understands the people. It applies mathematical models to understand their actions. It knows what you are doing and so it better understands your daily habits.”
“This sounds like nineteen eighty four from George Orwell, more like a dystopia than a system to help our people.”, Jason Mullins stated and looked to Evelyn and Jefferson.
“This reminds me of the wiretapping from NSA and FBI.”, a shocked Evelyn said and reminded herself of the law journals about Edward Snowden, the NSA and the data collection on every American less than two decades ago.
The moderator agreed with her. “I want to keep the government out of my business!”
“And if we are talking about empathetic software, then we are going back to a more human government although we tried to adapt a rational software? Isn’t that a joke?”
The debate was heating up. Both parties were discussing the point of humanity in a software, the advantages and disadvantages of a rational, less empathetic government. They discussed points like fair dealing with minorities by law.
“This is a good point, Senator!”, Morgan said. “As a homosexual I had many problems because of my own orientation and because I am an afro-american. I’d expect the virtual government to treat me equal to a white, heterosexual citizen.”
In her brain everything was heating up. The longer the debate lasted, the more lies she had to tell to defend a software she didn’t believe in anymore. She tortured herself with her appearance at the debate.
The debate came to an end after two hours. Participants were exhausted, keen they debated though. For a last statement Jason Mullins friendly asked his guests to make a final statement the public, starting with the expert from the Tesla-group.
“My fellow citizens, like all of you I am proud of this country, the freedom and the democracy we enjoyed for more two hundred and fifty years. As a scientist I have worked on artificial intelligence and know, what we are able to do with. But our nation was founded by humans for humans because our founding fathers knew, that politics for humans can only be done by humans. A software, a learning machine, is fine to make our life easier as it already did. I don’t oppose DAC as a company, because their systems helped our nation and our human government…”
Professor Miranda Milligan was listening to Morgan and his statement. He, the black and gay scientists with a bright mind, would become a representative of the minorities Oculus Government’s statistical models would pick to reduce unemployment or selected as reasons for pandemies or crime. She doubled her firsts and cramped when she was thinking about her speech in a few minutes. Meanwhile Evelyn McTreinfyr was speaking into the camera.
“…we mustn’t give up our freedom for the convenience not to care about politics. Thousands had died to defend our right to vote, thousands had died for our freedom and the ability to come together in parties. We’ve already lost a part of our freedom when we decided how a software should act next instead of electing a congress to make the decisions. Senator McFarrell is one of the last representatives in our country. Although I oppose his position, we shouldn’t give up our freedom and we shouldn’t abandon our right to act and elect responsibly. I stand here for future generations who need to know that they have the right to elect a government whose members will always pledge allegiance to the United States. Thank you. God bless you. And God bless the United States of America.”
There were standing ovations for the young lady from Fredericksburg in Texas who left the speaker’s text for Miranda Milligan, who took a deep breath before she walked on. Everything in her head was going mad. Was it right to do what she had planned? If she proceed, there’d be no way out. She said a little prayer, asked God for help. >Dear Lord< she thought and began to speak.
“My fellow citizens…”
Again she stopped. It wasn’t easy. But she had to go on. It was her damn mission to say what she wanted to say.
“…as the leading manager of Oculus Government I was involved in the development of the software DAC and the federal government want you to adapt and to replace a human government. Oculus has been built to make our government acting fair, to treat everybody equal, so that citizens like Professor Morgan on my left wouldn’t be discriminated on their race or sexual orientation. Oculus Government was built to make our government more efficient and less static. The ‘government in Washington’ had to come to an end with the setup of this software. And it should prevent us from repeating mistakes from our past or the past of other nations. But, I am sorry, I can’t defend this project anymore…”
The public was moaning, incredulously looking at her, the project leader who stood for Oculus Government. Even the senator was shocked and speechless. Did he hear right? He looked up, wanted to pull her back, but he was unable to move his body.
“Our simulations unveiled the weakness of self-modifying bots, the development of an artificial intelligence and its effect on our people. Oculus would be worse than any wiretapping from the NSA and FBI together and it habits wouldn’t help to keep the United States integrated into the world community, but help that the world hates us again. Oculus acted ruthless, not only to everyone else in the country, but also to everybody in the country. Mathematical models and statistics made the machine think of treating afro-americans and latinos unequal to white and asian Americans because of the combination of unemployment and criminal records like possession of marihuana. I don’t want to know what would happen if there were correlations between crime rates and homosexuals. Oculus wouldn’t care about elections or the right. In our simulations the software isolated itself and made it impossible for us to regain control over it. The system was and is too smart to run a country because we all would become slaves of a computer program. I can no longer stay for this software and I ask you not to vote for Oculus Government, but to keep our federal government human. Thank you and God bless the freedom of the American people.”
“After the statement of Professor Miranda Milligan, the former project manager of the Oculus Government Project, opponents of the virtual governments have won the election by eighty percent or more. Counting is going on. Mrs. Milligan wasn’t available for an interview, but Elon Musk, the initiator of the Tesla-group has shown himself grateful for her disclosure three months ago. Wall Street reacted as expected on the election results and the stock of DAC was diving and so does the struggling company. No official was willing to make a statement on the election results, the lawsuit against Professor Milligan or the federal government’s damage suit against the company. Tomorrow we are talking about Evelyn McTreinfyr’s likely run for White House. Thanks for watching. This is CNN.”

Oculus Government
“Oculus Government” is a short story about the development of a software to automatically run government’s daily business…
The Hatch Marked “2"
A short story about fire.
Schunk. Click. Sssshh.
He looked up from his drawing at the noise, and rose from his chair. He walked tentatively over to the hatch marked “1", pushing the handle up. He took out the small pile of envelopes and parcels, and let it fall back down.
TO BE INCINERATED — UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT — HANDLE WITH CAUTION
He shuffled to the other side of the room and, balancing the documents in one hand, opened up the hatch marked “2". The heat from the furnace within lashed out at him, and his glasses steamed up so much that he could hardly see. He quickly pushed the packages inside and slammed the door shut. Through a little window in the hatch he looked on as the papers caught fire almost immediately. The flames swirled around the stack, engulfing it. He stood in wonder at the light that came forth from the small room inside, watching it get brighter and brighter until it was so bright he couldn’t stand to look any more. He wrenched his eyes away, and sat back down, concentrating on his drawing.
They all said that. Every package that he’d incinerated in this job had that same line of text down the centre. To be incinerated, United States government, handle with caution. He’d seen it so many times he’d memorised it, but he’d not once thought to ask anyone what it meant. After all, he was never one to question authority, was he? And after all, he had a job to do- a very important job, too. It was his sole responsibility, as the man in charge of this room, to sit down in that chair and be very quiet. Then, when a package came through into the hatch, he was to pick it up carefully, take it to the other side of the room, and put it into the incinerator. Then was to sit back down again in that chair, and be very quiet.
He was not, on any account, allowed to open the packages. Not that he would ever want to, of course, but he knew that if he did want to, and he did do it, he would never get to incinerate another package again, and then where would he be?
He decided he didn’t like thinking like this, so he stopped. He went back to his drawing. He had been working on this drawing since the day he’d started work here, and it was almost finished. A masterpiece, every corner filled with the subtlest shades and the finest shapes. He was very proud of it; apart from incinerating packages, drawing was his favourite thing to do. With a practiced skill he carefully picked a colour from his box — luminescent orange — for the final details. When he had started, they had told him to draw whatever was on his mind, and without hesitation he had known exactly what to draw.
He was just picking out the right shade of brown for the walls when another package arrived.
Schunk. Click. Sssshh.
He took this one out of the hatch marked “1". It was a big package. Heavy, too- it took him three goes to pick it up and move it to the hatch marked “2", and even then he’d needed a rest in between. Sometimes the packages were like this, though. They came in lots of different shapes and sizes, and some of them were big and heavy (like this one) and some of them were small scraps of paper, covered with that same text- the text that he now saw written in large red letters on the top of the package.
TO BE INCINERATED — UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT — HANDLE WITH CAUTION
Despite the harsh tone of the message, he felt a little comforted by seeing it again. It was like an old friend to him, and as he mouthed the words along whilst reading it he felt a great sense of calmness wash over him. Smiling, he hefted the package into the hatch marked “2". He watched it burn, reciting those words in his head, over and over. One day, he thought, he would ask someone what they meant, but not yet. It was not in his nature to ask questions, and it probably wasn’t too important anyway. He wondered what a united states government was, though. That sounded interesting.
He dreams of a boat in a storm. He stands on the deck alone, waiting for the inevitable. A thunderclap seems to shake the boat, and the torrent of rain from the heavens has him drenched. Eventually it happens; the boat collapses, and he is left in the water, at the mercy of nature, and he knows it should represent something, because he knows it’s a dream, but the second he realises that he knows that, it disappears. The boat folds away, the sea dries up, the claps of thunder are silenced, only to be replaced with-
- the room. He sat bolt upright in his chair. He had fallen asleep on the job! This had happened before, he thought, and he remembered that they punished him badly for it. Exactly how they punished him, he can’t remember, but he knows that it had something to do with the dream. He sat looking at the wall of the room, where they came from, but nothing happened. No noise, no movement, no hurting…he was safe. He smiled at the wall, because he thought they could see him, and turned back to his picture.
His picture wasn’t there.
He thought that was odd, because it was there before he had fallen asleep. He looked under his chair, but it wasn’t there. He opened the hatch marked “1" and looked inside, but he couldn’t see it. He looked through the window of the hatch marked “2", but even through the flames of the furnace the picture wasn’t there.
He sat back down on his chair and put his head in his hands. That was his favourite picture, and drawing was his favourite thing to do, and now it was gone. Still, at least he had managed to finish it, and he had seen the final result before it had been taken from him. He looked around at the bare brown walls that surrounded him, and smiled. He was happy.
Schunk. Click. Ssssssh.
Another package! He scrambled to his feet and opened the hatch marked “1", excited to see those words again. It was just one large A4 envelope, but it was heavy. He should’ve put it straight into the hatch marked “2", but he wanted to savour this moment. Incinerating was his favourite thing to do, after all.
He felt the edges of the envelope gently. It seemed like there were lots and lots of pieces of paper in here; a big bundle of them. He was just wondering what they contained when he accidentally ripped a corner.
He froze.
He didn’t dare move. He had opened a package, and now he was in trouble. Even if they wouldn’t come get him after the dreaming episode, then this time he was definitely done for.He waited for the wall to slam open, for the whole room to turn black again.
But nothing did happen. The room stayed silent, but for the sound of his own (suddenly very obvious) beating heart.
Cautiously, silently, he tried to replace the corner he had ripped off. At the same time, he averted his eyes, so he didn’t see what was in the package, but it was no good. He couldn’t fit the corner on without seeing it, so he turned back to it.
At the edge of the top piece of paper, the exposed part, he saw a tiny flash of luminescent orange. It couldn’t….
He didn’t dare touch the package further for fear of ripping it, so he lay it on the floor. But still, was that not the….no, of course not.
Don’t be silly, just get it into the hatch marked “2"! Every instinct in his brain screamed at him to do his job, to follow orders, but he had to look. He lowered himself to the ground and, angling his vision just through the crack in the envelope, he peeked inside.
His picture! It was in there! Without a second’s thought he ripped open the package and saw that it was indeed his picture, finished as it was when he had last seen it. He was so happy to be reunited with it that it took him a minute to notice all the other pieces of paper in the envelope. Finally, though, he looked down at them on the floor, and his heart stopped.
That was him. Someone had drawn a picture of him, and they’d used his colours to do it! He recognised the deep red of the shirt, the sky blue of the eyes, the…the shading on the hair. It was exactly like his shading. Someone had not only used his materials, but had also imitated his style. In fact, this could’ve been a self-portrait, but he had no memory of ever having drawn it.
He looked at the one below. A house in the middle of a field. Again it was his colours, again his drawing. He was now sure that nobody could have copied these- this was his work.
He sat on the floor and flicked through the other photos. There were hundreds — thousands! — and every one different. A football, a book, a smiling woman, an office…all his. He flipped to the back picture, and was faced with the smile of a child.
She was a Little Girl; three, four years old? She was holding a balloon, she was standing in a garden, and her name was Gabriella, and she was born on the fifth of September, and this picture is her fourth birthday, and she is his daughter.
Everything hits him at once; a sudden rush of memories, of being taken in the night, and brought here, and drawing all of these pictures, of being told to draw whatever was on his mind, and them, them looking at the pictures he drew, and them shaking their heads, and hurting him, and making him forget it all, and doing it again, and again, and opening a package, and finding his driver’s license, and another, a card he wrote last Christmas, and another, his own computer history, printed out, and the years of hurting, and of forgetting, and then he looked back at the pictures.
His life was laid out here; his true life, his real one, not this faÃ§ade. His house, his football, his wife, his daughter, his loves, his hates, his hopes, his dreams, he had drawn them all. Then he looked at what he had drawn most recently; the picture that he had been so happy with just minutes ago.
He had drawn the room. The room that he was in. The brown walls, the chair, the luminescent orange of the hatch marked “2" — this is what had been on their mind, and now he understood why they hadn’t punished him for dreaming. He had forgotten. This room was who he was now. He was the property of the United States government. He was a commodity to be handled with caution. Well, he would show them. Now he knew what was happening, he could stop it. He could protest. He could-
The brown door (not a wall, a door, a DOOR!) slammed open, and before he could say a word, he was hit. He did not get one look at his assailant before collapsing into blackness. He heard voices talking, and then they stopped, and there was some shouting, and a gunshot, and silence. One voice, alone, quietly muttered something. Then he heard the hatch marked “2" opening, and felt someone pick him up. He tried to cry out but he couldn’t, and then he felt himself being lowered down, and then a searing pain, a burning, and then nothing.
EXPERIMENT FAILED — SUBJECT SK1029 REGAINED MEMORY — TO BE INCINERATED
The Hatch Marked “2"
A short story about fire.
Schunk. Click. Sssshh.
He looked up from his drawing at the noise, and rose from his chair. He walked tentatively over to the hatch marked “1", pushing the handle up. He took out the small pile of…
Truth be told

Image by edavid0817
Historians say many thousands of years ago a word spoken and a soul were the same for people. The word — the breathe — the soul. So people believed in what one have said always.
Funny.
Ardam FTL ship was about to come in three days. Three long days. It’s nothing compared to three hundred years of waiting.
Vrdishek said about it. Calm as always, came by: “Ship’s tuesdayning”. Like a pebble polished with a water. The one who knows the price paid for his every word spoken.
Hope he didn’t catch my shiver. Found me surprised, that’s all. Hope so. He’s too specialized on texture analysis after all. Tactificius on his fingertips. Oculas on his cheekbones. Able to see and feel a micrometer scratch on a surface. He’s a good specialist but not in human reactions.
He has left. I was on my own with the feel everything is too good to be true.
We’ve claimed Helimas five hundreds years ago. The crew of a generation ship willing to get back to the ground. Some were only able to live in a zero-g, some simply got used to this life. But most of us left the ship.
Colony was not that bad, to be honest. Until Home exploded.
I think nobody will ever know who was a victim and who was a villain. Accident? Someone’s attack? Revenge of our brothers we’ve left behind? Half the planet turned into a desert same second, and a huge hurricane started its march in a thinned atmosphere, when the starship turned into a blast.
We are not about a chit-chat. Words are a limited resource. One word is enough to say where, when and how long when I rent a lumb. Ardam crew will be surprised.
Two days to cross Sunny Mountains and to reach the capital. Lumbs are the only way.
Most people died in the first few minutes. The wind strike destroyed all but the most reinforced buildings. Lucky there were many people inside. The cold coming after the hot hurricane — dust have covered the sun light. Day after day survivors watched a winter without the snow behind windows of their shelters — radiation have ripped water vapor molecules. Hydrogen to be mostly thrown away by the shock wave.
Ardam has arrived on time. From the capital’s uptown I watched the shuttle landing — huge vehicle descended silently in a pillar of a zero-g field projected by geosynchronized FTLer.
Barter was going when I reached the downtown. Guests showed samples and some trinkets. It’s hard to say how much we’ve fallen behind Ecumene but we weren’t savages so monomolecular knives and gas-blasters were put aside in a bilges’ dusty corner.
Guests had their vac suits on — no chance for them to survive otherwise. It was hard to find we are of the same kind but it’s true.
You must not ask for silence when you want to talk to the crowd here.
We’ve survived. We had nothing. Dead planet, arid, crushed with a light of a thousand of suns, covered with a dust and ashes. Just a few specialists left alive.
But we’ve survived.
For every fault there was a punishment now. Not a death but a life. Other’s life.
I watch the people of a half-dead planet. Inoculated with modifications to protect them from a heat, a cold, a thin air, a radiation. This armor is based on living beings, not on hundreds of years of technical progress like guests’ suits.
We were the only thing we had. We’ve build everything from what we had. You draw a bad lot — and you’re cutted apart to give other people a chance. Not a bit wasted. We had a few good doctors.
Eyes to face the sun unblinkingly. Lungs to breathe in the atmosphere thin enough to see stars during the day. A thick skin. Tactificius, oculas. Lumbs able to bring three hundreds of kilograms through the desert and across the mountains.
Protein in cauldrons.
I don’t know why we’ve lost the ability to speak. Was it a side effect or a hand of God? Was it a way to hide deeds no one was proud of? But it happened suddenly and touched all the records, books, archives. People being used to jabber found they’ve just spoken or written their last word. Brain just ceased to continue. You can sense, you can think, but you’re not a part of a history from this moment. You can’t tell about the price we’ve paid at the beginning of it — and the first hundred of years of a Helimas’ history is covered with silence. Silence that was so hard to break through.
I know the words to share the truth.
But should the truth be told?

Truth be told
But speak no evil
Image by edavid0817
The Autobiography of a Dictionary
Story: (n) an account of invented or imagined events, etc.
It was his 11th birthday. I was to be his present.
His uncle had a contact in the agency.
I am the first copy of the new edition. Between the hardcover bindings, my pages hide words that have been lost for countless years, and some that have been newly formed. I am the bridge between old and new. I am the biggest book of words ever printed in one copy. I am a dictionary of the 22nd century.
Unique: (adj) Unlike anything else; being the only one of its type.
Wrapped in shiny paper, I travelled in the uncle’s bag. I was to come out of the wrappings on the given day and surprise my First Reader. I was to be his source of knowledge; I was to be his friend.
Little did I know, people don’t usually get along, as you’d hoped.
On his birthday, wrapped in the shiny paper I was handed to him. The paper was hastily torn off to reveal my hardbound cover. The words read there
Oxford Dictionary
22nd Century Edition
I greeted him well. My hardbound back made sure I don’t slouch. I met his eyes head on. He opened me up, rifled through a few of my pages and ended up tossing me aside.
“What do I do with a Dictionary? I could just say the word and my device would tell me the meaning of it, pronto. Why go around looking in a dictionary, when my devices can simply tell me?!” the child yelled.
His words sent a feeling down my spine. What word was it?
Disappoint: (v) to prevent a hope, plan, etc from becoming reality.
I was the first copy of a new series. I was hardbound with a plethora of words no one has heard of before. With me at his side, he could take over the world.
But he did not want me.
Why?
Because I could not actually talk.
I hid myself among the lose shiny paper of his other gifts. They had apples on them. God had forbidden them, as the story goes. And here they were, still leading mankind to doom.
My would-be First Reader played with his toys and new devices. Each one had a voice. Each one spoke back to him.
‘I have a voice, it’s written on these pages,’ I wanted to yell at him. But I could not. I kept quiet, finding the right word for the moment.
Patience: (n) (with sb/sth) The ability to accept delay, annoyance or suffering without complaining.
My First Reader, had shelved me at the top most tier on the little book shelf in the living room. He used a ladder to get up there, hastily placing me at the edge as if happy to be rid of my presence.
Time went by. I lay up there, forgotten.
I waited, patiently.
After a year had gone by, I heard my First Reader’s parents.
“You be a good boy, now. Lock all the doors at night. And call Aunty Linda if you need anything. Her number is on all the devices.”
“Yes, mom,” said the boy, eager for the conversation to be over.
I could sense the impatience in his voice. That feeling had become all too familiar.
Once his parents left, he plopped himself on the couch and yelled as if he was the master of the house, “Play Game.”
And it did. Lines and shapes flickered on the wall in front of me. I knew what it was. There was an old word for this.
Video game: (n) A game played using a home computer, etc in which the player controls images on a television screen.
Some kids will never change.
I sat where I was, counting the dust motes in the sunlit air near me. Slowly as the day went by, even the light disappeared.
The night had come.
The boy had turned his gaming device off and gone to sleep.
In the silence of the night, there was a sudden noise in the living room. I tried to look around in the dark, but I could see nothing. I could just hear a sound come in rhythm. What was it called again?
Footfall: (n) the sound of somebody walking, the sound of footsteps.
Could it be the First Reader? In the darkness I saw a faint silhouette.
It was not the boy, it was someone else. Someone bigger. Who could it be? There was no one else in the house. The word suddenly came to me.
Thief: (n) pl thieves: a person who steals, esp secretly and without violence.
I tried to shout out. But of course, I wasn’t meant to. I only hoped and prayed the boy would come.
The devices could not talk either as the thief disconnected them and put them in his bag. So much for their talking ability, for all the good it did that night.
One by one they disappeared into the thief’s bag.
Then, I heard another set of footsteps. Were my prayers answered or did the boy know his precious devices were being stolen? I will never know; but he was there.
From my vantage point, I looked down upon the scene. I now wished he was back in his bed and safe. What chance did a 12 year old have with a fully grown thief? The answer I found within myself.
None: (of sb/sth) not one; not any.
In the faint light, the boy saw the thief steal his devices. He rushed at him. But the thief had heard the boy and was taking out his gun. He fired, but the boy was too close to him. He missed.
The reverberation of the shot shook me.
The man and the boy struggled, in a tangle of limbs. The thief pushed the boy out of his way. He fell straight into the bookshelf I sat on. The entire bookshelf wobbled and I was dislodged from the place I rested and tumbled down.
As I fell, I felt a tingling sensation down my spine like never before. I even had the perfect word to describe it.
Destiny: (n) the power believed to control events; fate.
I fell straight onto the torso of my First Reader.
BANG!
Another shot fired; the proximity of the shot deafened me. But then I felt something worse. A piercing pain spread through my hardcover, all the way to the spine.
My First Reader was unconscious. I was fading too.
But we were both alive.
Unable to see me in the dark, the thief took the devices and ran. My First Reader lay under me, unconscious. He could not have prevented the theft, anyway.
Since that day, life changed for me. I did not patiently sit at the top of the bookshelf. I sat in the centre of it. As a place of honour, I take it.
Sometimes, my First Reader—who is growing up to be quite the intelligent young man—takes me down and pours over my words. All the while, his finger run in and out of the bullet hole in my hardcover. It feels…what’s the word…the wound has made me a little slow…
Content: (adj) with sth: feeling satisfaction with what one has; not wanting more; happy.
The loss of the devices were a blessing. My First Reader and I spent a lot of time together, learning and growing each day. His feelings for me grew to such an extent, after saving his life, the only word I feel that describes it is
Ineffable: (adj) too great to be described in words.
And here my story, of my transformation from a dictionary to a saviour, ends. I doubt any of his talking devices could ever have claimed the same. But then again, all they could do was talk. None of them were hardbound.
End: (n) the final part of a story, an event, an activity, a period of time, etc; the finish; the conclusion.
This story was selected as the Editor’s Choice at YourStoryClub.

The Autobiography of a Dictionary
Story: (n) an account of invented or imagined events, etc.
Rehab: A Short Story
A government inspector is given a tour of a top-secret rehabilitation centre for violent criminals.

There was a knock at the door.
‘Dr Landsmann?’
‘Come in,’ she called. The door opened, and into the small office stepped a man wearing a three-piece suit, a tie and well-buffed shoes. A red visitor’s badge with the initials H.M.P.S. printed on it was clipped to his lapel, somewhat marring his otherwise perfectly-maintained appearance.
‘Mr Carrington, I presume?’
Carrington nodded and offered his hand. Landsmann shook it.
‘Did you get through security okay?’ Landsmann asked. Again, Carrington nodded. ‘It tends to take a while, I’m afraid; even for men of your standing.’
‘Best to err on the side of caution,’ said Carrington.
‘Most definitely. It’s an unfortunate downside of working on such a ground-breaking project; they always attract the most controversy.’
‘Look at stem-cell research,’ Carrington suggested. ‘It might have been better for everyone if that had been kept away from the public until the results were available.’ Landsmann nodded distractedly, gathering up a stack of documents and attaching them to a clipboard.
‘Can I get you any coffee before we start the tour?’
‘No, thank you,’ Carrington replied. With her back to him, Landsmann stirred three heaped plastic spoons of sugar into her own beverage and allowed herself to frown. Hearing a person turn down coffee had a curiously irritating effect on her; it implied that they didn’t work hard enough.
‘After you,’ she said, motioning towards the door with her forehead because her hands were taken up by paperwork and her steaming polystyrene cup. Carrington held it open and allowed Dr Landsmann to go past him.
‘So,’ Landsmann started, as she led the government inspector down the maze of corridors, ‘I suppose the first question I should ask you is this: Are you aware of what we do here?’
‘You rehabilitate prisoners; specifically those convicted of violent or sexual offences,’ Carrington replied, as if from a cue-card. The research scientist smiled at him.
‘Okay; perhaps that one was a touch obvious. What I meant to ask was, are you aware of how we do what we do?’
‘To a certain extent. I’ve read some research papers published by your colleagues. I even managed to understand a paragraph or two.’ He glanced at Landsmann to see if she’d laughed at his little joke. It did not appear that she had. ‘It might be better if I heard it from the horse’s mouth, so to speak.’
‘The simplest way of explaining our procedure is this: we wipe away the test subject’s old, criminal personality — delete it, I suppose you could say — and replace it with a new, law-abiding one.’
Carrington raised his eyebrows. Landsmann continued:
‘You see, the human mind works by taking a vast array of experience derived from the senses and abstracting it into a series of general rules about how the external universe operates. On Earth, we observe that all objects fall downwards, and we gain an intuitive understanding of gravity. Though as very young children we may have believed that objects grew larger as we approached them and smaller as they moved away from us, repeated experience brought us to an understanding of perspective. So it is with everything. As a mind matures, these abstractions blend together to form things like memories, prejudices, morals, belief systems. These things, in turn, combine to form what we would call a “personality”, or a “self”. Everyone is subject to this process, and we cannot choose which experiences play a part in the creation of our inner selves. And, as with everything in life, some people are luckier than others.’
The pair came to a heavy steel door, which had the words SECTOR A: ISOLATION CHAMBERS 1–14 stamped on it. Underneath, a laminated chart was attached, showing which test subjects were currently housed inside. Landsmann tossed her empty cup into a bin, but she didn’t lead Carrington through the door just yet. Instead, she softly rapped on the steel with the knuckle of her index finger.
‘The people you are about to see are victims, Mr Carrington. Factors over which they had no control made them into what they are; or, rather, what they were, before they came to this facility.’
‘And what were they?’ inquired her companion, somewhat contemptuously.
‘Rapists. Murderers. People willing to hurt others for their own personal gain, and who have shown no desire to change.’ Once more, the doctor allowed herself to smile. ‘But don’t hold it against them. I mean, it’s their circumstances that made them commit their crimes; every person in the penal system was born as sweet and innocent as a cartoon princess.’
‘So they never had any choice?’ Carrington asked, leaning against the wall, staring at Dr Landsmann. At that moment, the bolt beside them clanked open, and the heavy door swung forwards. A heavy-set man in a white lab coat squeezed himself through the narrow opening.
‘Hey, Barney,’ said Landsmann, with a cheerful grin. The man did not acknowledge the greeting for a few seconds. He kept his shoulder to her, and held the suited man with a lingering gaze. It was only when the doctor told him not to worry about closing the door behind him that he turned and gave her a little smile in return. He quickly went on his way.
‘So they never had any choice?’ asked Carrington.
‘We’re not saying they never had any choice,’ replied Landsmann, with a hint of condescension. ‘What we’re saying is that circumstances tend to swing the odds in one direction or the other. To take an example; could you, in all honesty, pretend that you would be in the position you’re in today if you had grown up in poverty, or been a victim of domestic abuse, or neglect, or indoctrination?’
The man in the three-piece suit opened his mouth, and then closed it again.
‘It doesn’t even have to be something so blatant,’ Landsmann continued. ‘A few years ago I was working as a prison psychiatrist, and I’d been treating a man who was serving a twelve-year sentence for attempted murder. After a few months of interviews, it turned out that most of his anger had stemmed from the fact that he was a foot shorter than all his friends at secondary school.’
‘So-’
‘It’s very rarely a single cause like that, though,’ she interrupted. ‘Traditional rehabilitation is a very inexact science, Mr Carrington. Before this project, people like me were given the unenviable task of untangling all of a patient’s beliefs, their convictions, even their unconscious desires — all of which had been built up through years upon years of experience — and then trying to build something better from whatever we had left. What we have been developing in this facility is a method of rehabilitation that first strips away all of the subject’s previous experiences, in their entirety. We’re left with what Locke might have called the “blank slate”, onto which we may then project experiences of our own creation, and build a character which can return, safely, into society.’
‘And what is this method?’ asked Carrington.
‘That,’ answered Landsmann, ‘is better seen than heard.’ With these words she broke eye contact with Carrington and turned to look through the open doorframe, into Sector A. The government inspector followed her implied order, and began to walk in the direction from which Barney had just come.
Carrington suddenly jumped as he passed the first observation window, flattening himself against the opposite wall. Landsmann walked after him, but she didn’t increase her pace, and neither did she seem particularly concerned about her visitor’s well-being.
‘Sorry about that,’ she said, as a bead of sweat trickled down the side of Carrington’s head. ‘They like to stand facing the walls; it’s just bad luck that this one’s set up shop in front of the observation window.’
‘Can he see us?’ Carrington asked, inching closer the glass and peering into the blank eyes of the boy who was standing, stock-still, behind it. His cell was painted completely white, including the floor, and there did not seem to even be a bed for him to sleep on.
‘No,’ Landsmann replied. ‘The process wouldn’t work if our subjects were allowed any kind of sensory input. He’s completely in the dark; it’s only thanks to the twin wonders of science and technology that we can see him in there, whilst keeping the room completely black from his own perspective.’ She said this with a kind of pride, as though she herself had taken a part in developing the technology of which she spoke.
‘But why?’
‘Without any raw data with which to form new memories, the subject’s old ones quickly begin to fall away. Scarily quickly, if we provide assistance.’
‘What kind of assistance?’
Landsmann tilted her head, and stared dreamily into the uppermost corner of the room.
‘I once interviewed a woman who had lived through famine during her childhood…’
Carrington stamped his foot.
‘I’d like a straight answer, Ms. Landsmann, if that’s quite alright,’ he ordered brusquely. The doctor ignored him.
‘…She told me that she would wake up in the morning, hoping her sister had died during the night, so there would be one less person she would have to share her food with. Hard to imagine, isn’t it? As an adult, she broke off all contact with her family, because of the shame she felt at having wished for such a terrible thing. Before the famine, the pair had been as close as two sisters could be, give or take, but at that moment, in her hunger, her desperation, she had not just ignored, but forgotten all of her old memories, her old love. She saw her sister as a mere obstacle to her own survival.’
Carrington seemed to understand; either that or he didn’t want to know any more. He looked back at the pale, deathly thin child who stood behind the viewing window, gazing out into nothing.
‘What’s his name?’ he asked.
‘He doesn’t have one; at least as far as he knows.’ Landsmann paused for a moment. ‘As far as I know, either, now I come to think of it. I just call him Subject 53M.’
‘I’d like to know his name.’ Carrington’s words came out with icy, deliberate restraint.
‘I’m afraid you’ll have to ask Barney; he’s the one who tends to get attached to the subjects.’
As if on cue, the pair heard Barney’s heavy footsteps clunking down the corridor which led to the isolation room. They stood silently as he approached. Landsmann tapped her foot.
‘Doctor!’ Carrington called, as Barney squeezed through the door. Barney eyed him warily, but chose not to reply. ‘I’d like to know a few things about this patient’s history, if you would be so kind.’ The heavy-set man glared at Carrington, but obliged all the same. Loping over, he took the briefest of glances through the observation window, and then, nervously turning to face the obviously important man who stood before him, began to recite a series of facts about Subject 53M:
‘His name was Danny Arlington. His birthday’s July the eighteenth, so that would make him…twenty-seven, almost twenty-eight now.’
‘He’s twenty-eight?’
‘Almost twenty-eight,’ Barney corrected. ‘And I suppose that would mean he’s been in isolation for…three months, three-and-a-half?’ He asked the question to no-one in particular. ‘Sorry I can’t be more specific; I seem to have left my chart in the break-room.’
‘Just because we’re scientists doesn’t mean our memories are much good, Mr Carrington. I can’t even remember what I was doing last week without having my notes beside me,’ Landsmann chuckled, but it was now her turn to be ignored by Carrington.
‘What did he do?’ he asked, staring intently at Barney.
‘I think he was unemployed,’ Barney replied thoughtfully.
‘Not his job; what did he do?’ Carrington retorted, his calm starting to fade. ‘What was his crime?’
‘Oh — er — that. Well, Danny Arlington tried to blow up this facility.’
‘Really?’ Landsmann said, raising her eyebrows. ‘Wow; I should’ve known that.’
‘It was before you came to work here,’ said Barney, really beginning to sweat under the inspector’s gaze now. ‘They killed three people.’
‘They?’
‘Him and his wife. Poppy. Poppy, I think her name was.’
‘Doesn’t ring any bells,’ said Landsmann airily. ‘I must not have paid much attention when it happened. I suppose it was all covered up, though, wasn’t it; what with this place being involved?’
‘How did they even know about this project?’ asked Carrington.
‘They wouldn’t have had much more than rumour and hearsay to go on.’
Barney nodded in agreement. ‘For all they knew, they might’ve been bombing a children’s hospital.’
‘Such is the nature of religious conviction,’ his colleague lamented.
‘What made you think they were religious?’ Carrington asked.
‘We can discuss it on the way to the rehabilitation centre,’ Landsmann replied, turning on her heel and leaving the other two behind. ‘I’d like to get some work done this afternoon, if that’s quite alright with you.’
Wheezing slightly as he went, Carrington hurried to catch up with the doctor. She, however, had already launched into a monologue about the second part of the rehabilitation process, and he was unable to pursue his line of inquiry any further.
‘With the huge quantity of theory and experiment we had behind us, we were reasonably confident that a sustained period of total sensory deprivation would have the envisaged effect; disassociation of the subject’s basic bodily and cognitive faculties from its identity. It was, after all, on the basis of that research that this facility received its funding, and — as you of all people should know, Mr Carrington — our government does not finance the wilful mistreatment of its citizens, even prisoners, unless it is sure there will be some profit to come out of it. However:’ Here, Dr Landmann’s pace slowed somewhat. ‘Since the length of isolation we needed to inflict on our subjects had never been attempted before, the later stages of the deconstruction process were very much a case of the blind leading the blind. Quite literally, I’m sorry to say. ’ She stopped, and turned to face Carrington, who until that point had been trailing behind, watching her ponytail whip to and fro as she pressed forward. ‘Do, you have any children, Mr Carrington?’ she asked, her nose no more than two inches from his face.
He was taken aback.
‘Err… Yes. Yes I do; two girls,’ he stammered. ‘Why do you ask?’
‘Three weeks in that isolation chamber, and you wouldn’t remember either of their faces. Six, and you wouldn’t remember either of their names. Two months, and you would barely recall their existence.’
Carrington’s brow furrowed at the insinuation, but Landsmann still pressed on:
‘Don’t think that you could withstand this process by mere force of will, Mr Carrington. Don’t think that your English stiff-upper-lip or your Oxbridge education would allow you to overcome the laws of physics. You’re no stronger than that man we saw back in the isolation chamber.’ Her own lip curled, mockingly, as she said it. ‘If we left you in there for too long, you would no longer comprehend language enough to hear your daughters’ names as anything more than the howling of an animal, and if they stood in front of you, you would no longer recognise them as members of your own species, let alone your own family.’ The lip fell into a grimace as she added: ‘Sadly, these claims are not just idle speculation, but the recorded observations from our earliest attempts to empty out the vessel. As it turns out, we vastly overestimated the resilience of the human mind.’
‘What happened to them? The first ones?’ Carrington demanded.
‘We pushed them too far,’ Landsmann replied solemnly. ‘They were put beyond the point of recovery.’
‘They died?’
‘No. Worse, I’m afraid. Try to imagine a human being, stripped of everything that makes them human, and you’ll still not even be half way there.’
Carrington gave a look that said he didn’t want to imagine. Instead, he asked:
‘Where are they now?’
‘Mental institutions. Their relationship with this facility has been obscured, of course.’
‘I’d like to meet some of them, before I submit my report.’
For the first time, a crack appeared in Landsmann’s sheen of scholarly detachment.
‘Meet?’ she snapped. ‘Have you not been listening to a word I just said? There’s no-one left in there to meet!’
Carrington was silent. When Landsmann had regained some of her lofty composure, she continued:
‘The second part of the process, refilling the vessel, required the same use of trial and error. No-one had ever broken down the human mind to the degree that we had before; no practical experiments had ever been possible, so all we had to guide us was mere conjecture, along with a willingness to fail. It was like trying to perform brain surgery armed only with a copy of Freud’s Interpretation of Dreams. And, like I say, we had to be prepared to fail; because we did. Many times.’ Landsmann stared at her shoes; all of a sudden, she had the look of a sheepish child. ‘We lost a lot of subjects,’ she said, turning away from Carrington. ‘We lost a lot of people.’
‘Then why didn’t you stop, for God’s sake!’ Carrington barked.
‘For God’s sake? We don’t get a lot that, here.’
‘I’m not surprised!’
‘Are you a religious man, Mr Carrington?’
‘What does it matter?’
‘It never seems to be the suffering that we inflict on our patients that the God-fearing people care about. It’s the fact that we’re, hem, “taking people’s souls.”’
‘I can understand why people would see it that way.’
‘And what about my soul?’
‘What about it?’ Carrington replied, contemptuously.
‘I’m under no illusions, Mr Carrington. If I’m not the devil himself, then I sold my soul to him every time I put my face to the observation window and looked through the eyes of that poor bastard back there. But I’d do it again tomorrow — I will do it again tomorrow — for the sake of the same man I’ve spent the last four months driving halfway to insanity, because if people like you had the courage to give this project the funding it deserves, he would be given a second chance, rather than being sent to rot in prison for the rest of his Goddamn life. He could go on to live a better life, a useful life, instead of being thrown back in that chamber so we can perform more tests on him, just to appease the concerns of people like you. He could be free by now.’
‘Free, to be whatever you people would turn him into,’ Carrington retorted.
‘As opposed to what he was made into, when he was too young to know what was happening? Unlike some, Carrington, we never try to program our own prejudices into our subjects; we just give them the means to choose their beliefs for themselves. The man that Subject 53M becomes could go out and bomb somewhere else; there would be nothing to stop him making that choice again, but thanks to us, there would be no more chance of that than with any random person off the street. Perhaps even less, because he’d leave this facility with a far better education than the average person on the street.’
Again, there was silence. The pair entered into the next chamber, which had REHABILITATION AREA stamped on the door. Carrington barged through ahead of Landsmann. The doctor eyed him suspiciously as she followed.
‘I should’ve been able to show you the later stages of the rehabilitation process now,’ she explained. ‘It takes around two months, with each of our six teams only focusing on one subject at a time, but due to circumstances beyond my control, for the last two months my team has been without a rehab patient. However, I’d be happy to take you through the equipment,’ she added, the word “happy” coming out with a twinge of sarcasm, ‘and give you an overview of how the process works; how we re-implant the most basic of human thought patterns first, using a mixture of specialised pharmaceuticals and targeted nerve stimulation-’
‘I don’t much care how it works,’ Carrington interrupted. ‘I’m sure it’s every bit as barbaric as what I’ve already seen. I’ve been sent here to find out if it works.’
‘All our tests thus far have indicated success,’ Landsmann returned.
‘And what’s to say that Appleton back there won’t start to remember his old life within a year of getting out? What’s to say that nothing is going to suddenly trigger the dormant memories in his brain? What’s to say that he won’t end up like those other people you’ve already sent off to the lunatic asylum?’
‘It’s impossible to know for now. Understandably, we haven’t discovered any means of conducting tests inside the lab that provide quite the, erm, rigour of real life. However, our research suggests-’
Carrington waved a hand; a triumphant smirk suddenly crept up one side of his face.
‘Thank you, doctor. That will be all. Now, if you don’t mind, I have a meeting with your superior, Dr Reinhardt, to get to. Would you please show me to his office?’
‘By all means,’ Landsmann replied, trying to rearrange her gritted teeth into something approaching a smile.
‘You slipped up there, you know; telling me about your inability to find a barometer of your success,’ Carrington called from behind the doctor as she led him, as quickly as possible, to Dr Reinhardt’s office. ‘Or your failure, as the case may be.’
‘I’m a scientist, Carrington. We tend to prefer the truth to fiction,’ she grunted back, not breaking her stride. They walked the rest of the way in silence.
Landsmann knocked at the door.
‘Dr Landsmann?’
‘Yes, Dr Reinhardt, it’s me. I’ve got Mr Carrington here.’
‘Then by all means, come in.’
Reinhardt sat behind a large walnut desk. The carpet, walls and lighting in his office combined to give the whole room an amber glow, in stark contrast to the sterile atmosphere of the laboratory. Without waiting for an invitation, Carrington took his place in one of the chairs opposite him. Landsmann made to leave.
‘Actually, Doctor, if you wouldn’t mind joining us,’ Reinhardt said. Landsmann tutted, but she obeyed the command and slumped down on the seat next to the inspector.
‘Good afternoon, Mr Carrington. It’s a pleasure to finally meet you.’ Reinhardt held out his hand, and the inspector shook it. He did not, however, repay the compliment. Reinhardt did not seem fazed.
‘How did you find Ms Landsmann?’ he asked.
‘Quite detestable, to be frank.’ Carrington had found his confidence again, now that he was out of the lab and back onto his own turf; the meeting room. Landsmann rolled her eyes, making sure that Dr Reinhardt saw her do it. ‘But she did provide me with one interesting piece of information,’ the government inspector added.
‘And what was that?’
‘That you people have no idea whether this macabre spectacle even works! As far as I can see, this place is nothing more than a torture chamber! And that, Dr Reinhardt, is precisely the report which I plan to deliver to the cabinet ministers tomorrow. This place will be shut down within two months.’ In the face of Carrington’s animated performance, Reinhardt stayed placid.
‘Actually, Mr Carrington, I think you’ll find you’re mistaken in that respect.’
‘In what respect?’ the inspector stammered, casting a wary eye at the two large men behind him. He recognised one of them as Barney. He stood quickly up from his chair.
‘If you would calm down for a moment, I shall explain,’ said Reinhardt. ‘You are mistaken in your claim that we do not have the evidence to confirm this process’ efficacy. In fact, we conducted an experiment this very afternoon which demonstrates that our subjects, even straight out of rehabilitation, are firmly entrenched in their new identities and are resistant enough that even the most blatant triggers will not cause a subject to relapse into their old self.’
Landsmann, who until that moment had been looking rather bored, suddenly sat up in her chair.
‘You figured out a test? What did you do?’
Reinhardt smiled at her.
‘The goals of the experiment were twofold. Firstly, we had to prove that an uninformed observer would not be able to spot any residual signs of the conditioning process in a subject who was clear of rehabilitation. Secondly, we needed to prove that presenting the subject with stimuli from their old life would not trigger any latent recall; essentially, we needed to prove that the old memories had been removed, not replaced.’
Carrington gave a snort of laughter.
‘So, what; you’ve got one of them a fast-food job?’
Reinhardt didn’t laugh.
‘Not quite.’
He removed a photograph from his inside jacket pocket and placed it on the table, facing Carrington and Landsmann. Looking up at them was a fresh-faced, smiling man, somewhere in his twenties. A hand was resting on his shoulder.
‘53M?’ said Landmann, in a confused voice. ‘But he’s not even out of isolation yet.’
‘His name is Appleton,’ Carrington hissed.
‘It was Arlington, actually,’ corrected Reinhardt. ‘But you’re quite right, Dr Landsmann; it was not 53M that took part in this experiment.’ He tapped his finger on the hand wrapped around Arlington’s shoulders. ‘It was his wife; 12F. Poppy Arlington.’
‘I wasn’t aware that we had any female subjects in the facility at the moment,’ replied Landsmann, creases appearing on her brow. Reinhardt gave Carrington a meaningful glance, and the inspector suddenly understood. Reinhardt’s words played over in his head:
…even the most blatant triggers will not cause a subject to relapse into their old self.
Reinhardt seemed to read Carrington’s mind. He reached into his suit jacket again and removed another photo.
‘Even irrefutable evidence will not cause a subject to relapse,’ he said.
He placed the next photograph on the table, so that it lined up with the first one. Dr Landsmann stared at herself for a moment, standing, smiling, with her arm around Danny Arlington’s shoulders. Suddenly she erupted, jerking to her feet with such force her chair was sent tipping backwards.
‘What is this?’ she demanded from no-one in particular. Barney closed in behind her.
‘Greta, please be calm…’ he said, slowly.
‘That’s right! Greta! Greta Landsmann! Doctor Greta Landsmann!’
Reinhardt didn’t react. He spoke to Carrington, continuing to affix him with a pregnant gaze.
‘Precisely. Poppy Arlington no longer exists. The body that once belonged to her now belongs to Dr Landsmann.’
Landsmann leaned on the table and bellowed:
‘Are you this desperate for funding? That you’d try set me up with some tenth-rate bit of photo manipulation? We’ve worked together for three years, Eric!’
Reinhardt closed his eyes.
‘Less than a week. I know it’s painful to hear, Greta, but it’s true. Believe me; I wouldn’t have put you through this if there was any other way to show the ministers the value of the research we are conducting. You said it yourself; we’ve been forced to do terrible things, but by doing them we can give people like Poppy Arlington a second chance. A second life.’
‘There is no Poppy Arlington! There never was! There’s only me!’ Landsmann shrieked. She lunged for the pen on Reinhardt’s desk, but Barney quickly restrained her. Carrington, who had fled to the opposite side of the room, decided to join in the shouting match.
‘That’s enough, Reinhardt! Get her out of here, now!’
The man behind the desk opened his eyes once again.
‘Very well. Gentlemen, please escort the doctor to the isolation chambers.’
‘NO!’ Landsmann yelped. Barney mouthed the words along with her.
‘I’m afraid I must insist, Barney,’ Reinhardt replied in a very deliberate tone. Landsmann turned, wild-eyed, towards Carrington.
‘Please! You can’t do this to me! I’m not her! I’m not her!’ Carrington could still hear those same three words screaming through the corridors of the facility, long after Landsmann was dragged out of the office.
I’m not her! I’m not her! I’m not-
Then, suddenly, silence. Carrington watched as Reinhardt carefully pulled a handkerchief from inside his jacket and dabbed his forehead with it.
‘Goodbye, Greta,’ he muttered under his breath. He gazed at the floor for just a moment, then turned his eyes back towards Carrington. ‘By the by,’ he said, ‘we can provide you with plenty of evidence which disproves Dr Landsmann’s claims of sabotage.’
‘I’m sure you can.’
They sat in silence for a minute.
‘So, Mr Carrington, I suppose there’s little else for you to see. Before you leave, though, I must ask you one last thing: Will you still be trying to convince the ministers to abandon our project?’
They sat in silence for a minute more.
‘Forgive my curiosity. I’m a scientist; it tends to get the better of us,’ Reinhardt explained.
‘It’s not up to me whether you receive the funding. If the project is showing signs of success, the ministers will vote to continue with it,’ Carrington finally replied, in a defeated voice.
‘Very well,’ Reinhardt replied. ‘I look forward to receiving a copy of your report. Barney will show you back through security when he returns.’ With that, he got up from his chair and walked around the desk, towards the door.
‘Wait!’ Carrington suddenly burst out. Reinhardt remained inside the room, but he didn’t turn around.
‘Yes?’
‘Before I leave, I have to ask you something.’
‘Ask away.’
‘What’s to say that, one day, you won’t be called into a meeting with your superior, and you won’t find out that they’ve done the same thing to you as you’ve done to that Arlington girl?’
‘Nothing, Mr Carrington,’ Reinhardt replied. ‘Nothing is to say that.’
Rehab: A Short Story
A government inspector is given a tour of a top-secret rehabilitation centre for violent criminals.
The Big Crash of ‘42
Our addiction to more data, faster, better, stronger eventually overwhelmed our ability to build a bigger Internet…
“Steamtop” by Jake von Slatt from Flicker
We killed the Internet in the year 2042.
We didn’t know we were going to. Our addiction to data overwhelmed us as a species. The news went around some years later saying something about annual exponential data accumulation or some such.
Things were faster back then. Computers, we used them to do everything. Innocent citizens kept putting thousands of pictures of themselves online.
It wasn’t enough for an individual to store more images of themselves than the Library of Congress, people started lifelogging and not just keeping pictures, they kept digital recordings. The technology got cheaper, smaller, faster, but data could only be made so small. But we thought we had infinite space to store cat pictures and meaningless footage of our lives shuffling paper in our offices.
We were wrong.
The Cloud had finally become the Internet as we knew it. No one knew how it worked, no one cared. It had achieved a ubiquitous quality, everywhere and yet nowhere in particular. People stored their data on a server that was not their own. Not in their home, or neighborhood or even state. We stored our data on other parts of the planet. And they did the same. When the cloud crashed, it wasn’t just because of cat pictures. Though they didn’t help things.
It wasn’t just invasive advertising which had connected itself to every single piece of data being uploaded or downloaded. It wasn’t just the games, oh my God, the data-hungry games, everywhere, every second of every day. It wasn’t just the NSA tagging our video streams using their Watson supercomputers to ferret out would-be terrorists hiding in my neighbor’s garden.
Nor was it the Russian-Nigerian mobsters who promised me mail-order diamond brides if I just helped them with checks made out to foreign investors trapped in their country without cash; spam filters worldwide couldn’t keep up with the requests.
It wasn’t the just the botnets who were randomly spawning themselves like salmon after inventive hackers in China and Singapore taught them how to mutate naturally and ensure no operating system, whether it be a desktop, or laptop or phone or tablet could truly call itself safe. These botnets spawned randomly competing for dataspace and after a while even the mutations fought each other for dominance creating their own software that needed space on the internet.
There were plenty of other government agencies using the Cloud to wage private wars for dominance over oil, gas, electricity, missile technology, secret airplane designs, military strategies, troop allocations, RFID on toilet paper inventories (because, well, toilet paper stockpiles was a better indicator of the number of troops than almost anything else). Private wars fought in cyberspace using programs who were once built by government programmers using the largest languages, created the most bloated code, ensuring cyberwars were like real ones; vast messy collateral-damage filled orgies of mass-data destruction.
The FBI wanted to be sure that potential trafficking organizations who were secretly under surveillance could be effectively tracked across state lines so every telephone in the nation broadcast its location back to a series of supercomputers tracking those phones (in real time, of course), to be sure every phone’s location and the person responsible for it could be known, just in case they were a terrorist or a kidnapper. Or a stealer of stamps, or launderer of money or whatever else the FBI does while they claim they are keeping the nation safe.
But mostly because it was easier tracking phones than people (officially, unofficially, because everyone had been tagged from birth) or given a tag every time they went to the doctor to ensure they were citizens. People who weren’t tagged in building might find themselves the subject of an ICE investigation and deportation. For this to be effective the Cloud was abuzz with information most people didn’t know was being collected.
The same could be said of the CIA or the NSA with a correspondingly higher body count. Multiply this by every nation’s secret police they all claimed not to have and you have a torrential amount of data being collected that no one would ever have the time to read. Even computers couldn’t be bothered with parsing the data and delegated the task continuously to the oldest computer around, ensuring the feat would never be completed.
Add billions of talking, navigating, autopiloting cars, planes, trucks, busses, phones, and autonomous stock exchange computers making trillions of competing computations per second…what did we think was going to happen? Shakespeare?
All of this stopped on Wednesday, February 26, 2042. No more uploads, no more downloads, or tracking or finding or reading. It just took one computer system to be down, one network to be unavailable to bring it all to a halt. On this day, a particularly hot day over the Midwestern Googleplex, the failure of a cooling system caused the indexing capacity of the Cloud to be temporarily exceeded.
But like all systems without proper redundancy, one failure leads to others. For fifty years we built on this system taking it for granted like we did sewer systems in infrastructures of old. And just like then, we found ourselves hip-deep in shit.
No more hash, no more storage, no more places to put cat pictures. A world ablaze in digital commerce screeched to a halt. Just like that.
Now the only life you could follow, track or lead was your own. Screens went blank. Circular cursors never resolved. Servers died screaming. Eyes glazed. Eventually people moved again.
Kids went outside to play.
Adults went to work, to work.
People looked at each other. And now for the first time in a long time, spoke to the person right next to them. While computers still work, network access is spotty and unreliable. It’s hard to be sure what your computer will find these days. Most of it isn’t very useful.
We find data archives sometimes and they are of people’s lives far away; in a time very different than now. We watch them for a while, marvel at the world back then and then get back to rediscovering technologies we lost in The Crash. Most of us are farmers now. (I secretly aspire to be a journalist.)
The best thing about The Big Crash was there were no more Russo-Nigerian princes sending letters. (I never knew where Russo-Nigeria was anyway.)
The Big Crash of ‘42 © Thaddeus Howze 2014, All Rights Reserved

The Big Crash of ‘42
Our addiction to more data, faster, better, stronger eventually overwhelmed our…

The Sleepwalker
I wake up a week early in an unfamiliar room, with blood on my hands.
I’m slumped on an uncomfortable chair in a cold, clean room lined with metal drawers. I can scarcely stir. The usual post-Letherol fug. I’ll just have to wait it out. Video screens in my peripheral vision play endless corporate propaganda. Smiling workers on loop. Eye-rolling stuff, but then they aren’t for my benefit. A Letherolated worker wanders through the sterile room, glancing at the screen as they pass and mirroring the glassy smiles. No doubt the video has the same beatific effect on me when I’m under the influence.
In between loops the screen displays a ticker showing rolling corporate metrics. The current share price of ChangCom. The current production rate of London 3, our unit. The time and date are displayed in the corner. I’m not scheduled to wake up for another week. What’s gone wrong?
I’m on a monthly cadence. Three weeks of work, one week off. It works well enough for me. Three solid weeks of work — night and day, no breaks — earns me enough to be able to afford that week of leisure time as well as the drugs I need for work: Somnul to override the need for sleep, Energon to prevent fatigue, and Letherol to blank the mind. Some choose other cadences. My elder brother John chose a sixty year cadence. He planned to work solidly for forty years, then enjoy a twenty year retirement. Better ratio that way. Our mother wept as he left for his first day of work. She knew there was a chance she’d never see him again, that one of them might die before his shift finished. As it happened, John died twenty years in. Heart failure caused by Energon complications. John was sensible, a long-term thinker, but his gamble didn’t pay off. I’m more prodigal. I want to enjoy all stages of life, even if the returns are poorer. The thought of waking up an old man, my youth devoured by Letherol, terrifies me even more than the thought of not waking up at all.
I wasn’t always on Letherol. I couldn’t afford it; few could. I used to be conscious for every stultifying moment of every interminable shift. I started off as a box hauler; my dexterity isn’t good enough for the manual fabrication work that robots used to do before the Industrial Regression. Endless back and forth across the factory floor, stacking boxes for export to First World countries. Sorry, Zeroth World countries is the term I should use. To say otherwise ruffles the feathers of the caste of middle managers we call politicians, who preferred to invent a new tier and grudgingly promote the likes of China rather accept our own demotion.
Anyway, that all changed when an investigative reporter infiltrated one of the London units. The footage that leaked onto the net was uncomfortable viewing for those who had been shielded from the worst of the Regression. Workers performing their duties like dead-eyed zombies was expected. It was the untrammeled weeping and gibbering that was truly unpalatable.
ChangCom’s share price plummeted. A month later, Letherol was subsidised. Now we’re practically all on it. Happy little automata.
Not all. Some resist. I usually pass at least one fundamentalist at the gate when I start a shift. Two weeks ago it had been a chunky guy with red hair and wild eyes. He wore a badge that said Remember, and held a placard that said Experience + Memory = Humanity. I’d brushed quickly past him. I feel grudging admiration for those like him — they certainly have greater fortitude than I do, preferring to remember every grinding moment out of philosophical principle. Mostly I pity them. My life experience may only be a quarter the length of theirs, relatively speaking, but it’s a life of unbroken leisure. Other than the brief recovery period, it’s as if the drudgery never happened.
I almost never see the same protestor twice. I suppose they inevitably cave in to Letherol.
The fog lifts and sensation returns. I cautiously stretch my limbs then stand up. A man in a pristine white coat enters the room. It’s my supervisor, Spencer. He scowls at me through owlish glasses.
“Where have you been, Neuman?” he says irritably. “Room 87, now. I want this business concluded.”
I know I should tell Spencer that my drugs have worn off, but he turns and stalks off before I can gather my wits. Not knowing where room 87 is, I scurry after him.
Room 87 is a metal room like the one I woke in. The first thing I see when I enter is Spencer talking on his phone, his back turned to me. The second thing I see is a man I recognise as the red-headed protestor from two weeks prior. He’s lying semi-conscious on a steel surgical table. He no longer looks so stocky. I realise with horror that his right arm has been amputated at the elbow and cauterised. Dried blood cakes that side of the table.
“He says he’s working alone, sir,” says Spencer on the phone. “He claims to know nothing about the Cell. Says he’s just a non-violent protestor. No, I don’t believe him. He knows the seditionists all right. He’ll talk.”
Spencer hangs up and turns to me. I arrange my face as best I can, adopting a serene, glazed expression. I pray to be sent on an errand so that I can calm myself and think.
“Last chance, Caffrey,” says Spencer to the man on the table. “Names. Give me names.”
Caffrey moans insensibly and utters limp protestations.
“So be it,” says Spencer grimly. “Neuman, remove the other arm.”
Caffrey begins to shriek piteously and I can no longer conceal my horror. Spencer looks at me with alarm.
“My drugs,” I say, apologetically stammering. “The dosage. Wrong dosage.”
Spencer nods with a mixture of concern and impatience. He opens a cabinet and takes out a jar.
“Speak up sooner next time, for your benefit as much as mine,” he says, proffering a handful of Letherol. I stare at the blood-red pills but do not take them. My body is frozen with indecision. I want to be released from this waking nightmare, but to embrace the nullity of Letherol is to accept complicity.
Spencer frowns at me. “Take the pills,” he says in a voice as sharp and precise as a scalpel.

The Sleepwalker
I wake up a week early in an unfamiliar room, with blood on my hands.

Sandfall
I remember that day like it was yesterday. It was supposed to have rained the night before and into the morning, but I couldn’t tell from my apartment. The only windows faced my neighbors’ only windows, and the outer walls of our apartments formed a dingy, square enclosure that opened up to a small patch of sky up at the top. Sharp, angular rays sometimes peered in at mid-day through this little opening, but dawn and dusk came furtively, like disease. Rain wasn’t often discernible because little of it made it down to the bottom floors through the opening high up, though little rivulets trickled down walls when it rained heavily. We never opened our windows or peered to look up at the patch of sky, mostly for fear of what we’d see or worse, smell, down below. I could see empty, crumpled and broken plastic bottles lining my neighbors’ outer window sills; my outer window sill had soiled paper napkins — refuse from higher floors. That day, the pavements were still wet when I walked out onto the main street. The air, too, was wet and cold, as if it was holding on to the memories of the rain.
I stopped to check my phone — 9:10 a.m. I was late for work. I had slept in, dreaming familiar dreams — Dad in my hospital room with a caramel-haired puppy in his arms; caramel-haired puppy on my belly; patches of blood forming shapes on the white gauze that covered injured hands with which I stroked caramel-haired Sadie; me hitting my roommate for kicking Sadie; Sadie’s fur glistening on a fragrant fall morning; Sadie growling; Sadie running after Winston Churchill (her ball); the doctor letting me know with a gleam in his eyes and a smile that they had saved Sadie. The dreams were always patchy, and non-sequitur as all dreams are. Some were true. Some weren’t. I never stood up to my roommate for kicking Sadie but I wish every day that I had. Instead I just moved to a much smaller place, which was all I could afford by myself, just so I could keep Sadie with me. And there was no gleam in the doctor’s eye when he told me he couldn’t save Sadie from the injuries she had sustained in the car accident right outside that apartment.
I headed to my usual deli for my usual coffee and breakfast before getting into the subway. Now my eyes had adjusted to the dull, gray morning and I realized everyone was brushing off what looked like yellow grains. On that humid, cloudy morning sand like grains rained from the sky, not in a torrent but quietly like gentle snow. People were walking to the subway, walking to work, listening to music on their headphones, talking on their phones and all the while rubbing off these grains from their arms, their shoulders, clothes and their hair. Pavements, trees, cars, people were all covered with these grains. Before I knew it, my jacket arms and shoulders were completely covered too. The grains were perfectly shaped hexagons, the color and size of loose ocean sand. Each grain fit into the others like cells in a honeycomb, and even glistened faintly under the gray-white light that illuminated the street on that dull morning. I stopped and stared as the grains stuck to my jacket to form one congealed mass, and even tried to pluck a few out to feel them between my fingers. As I lowered my face and brought my arm closer to look at the grains, a lock of my short hair fell forward grazing my cheek very lightly before appearing clearly in front of me. I moved my gaze toward my hair, which was now covered in these minute, glistening beige hexagons. Not an inch of my black hair made it through the thick, opaque, but somehow mildly glistening sheath that covered it. Against my cheek and in my fingers, I felt the smooth, cold, skin-like texture of the grains. I could press each one between my fingers. They felt like soft, miniature cushions.
I must have looked confused. A lady who was passing by said “Don’t worry, just brush it off with your hand. It’ll come off and fall to the ground.” I looked up to see her brushing the stuff off her own clothes and hair.
“Do you know what it is?” I asked her. She walked right past.
I didn’t want to brush them off. I have often wondered if it was just one of those slow days for me, or if there was really something about these grains that made me want to collect them in my hands, like a little girl nervously holding her mother’s precious pearls. People walked by me annoyed, irritated, aghast, or afraid of the profusion of these little hexagons that descended from the skies into our lives. I, on the other hand, stopped in the middle of the sidewalk and watched the few that I’d collected, cupped in my hands like I had once tried to cup the rain in my little five-year-old hands. They seemed loose and separate at first, but drew closer to one another within minutes. The ones closer to the edges of my hands sunk down or moved to the center. Soon a beige leaf-shaped mass filled out the little enclosure between my hands — perfectly flat on top but following the curvature of my hands. An ambulance with a screeching siren whizzed by, a pedestrian cursed a cab driver for almost running him over, a passer-by yelled on his phone “Fuck You bitch!” as he shook his head violently to rid himself of the grains. I stared at this latticework that formed a beige leaf in my hands, and all the familiar sounds and noises that surrounded me suddenly sounded like one coherent monotone that was at once jarringly loud and peacefully quiet. I stood planted in the whirling chaos around me but became delightfully distant as well. I have since wondered if the grains had some hypnotic effect if you stared at them long enough. There was only one wonderful thought in my head that damp morning as I stood on the sidewalk looking, I imagine now, like a sand dune in the shape of a woman:
Were these grains alive? In the same way, as say, plants are?
I shook off my reverie when another harried and annoyed office-goer brushed past me with a “You’ve got too many of these things on you, you might want to brush them off.” I dutifully brushed most of the grains from my clothes but kept the little mound that had formed in my hand and shoved it into my bag. Full-blown panic set in when I realized I was almost an hour late for work. I skipped breakfast and headed for the subway.
More information trickled in.
“Weather men today are baffled by a strange phenomenon that seemingly started early this morning, around 5:00 a.m. Yellow, sand like grains rained all over New York and parts of the northeast. Climate scientists have now confirmed that the composition of these grains does not include water, or any known element found in other forms of precipitation. So far there have been no incidents of harm done due to this strange downpour of grains. People are advised to carry and use umbrellas. For now, schools and offices continue to run per usual. Both the state and federal governments have declined to make any announcements until the results of a more thorough investigation are established.”
No one spoke of anything else at the office. There were rumors of some old lady in Queens who managed to ingest some of the grains and died on the spot. Others in the office said how the grains had penetrated concrete walls. Everyone tuned in to the news and weather channels on their computers instead of music on Pandora while trying to focus on work. I had an email waiting for me “Hi Riva, can you come see me in my office? We need to talk.”
It was the new thing our manager had begun to do — have a little chat with us every day we were late to work. He would remind us that we worked exactly nine to five and that we were supposed to wave at him when we came in and wave on our way out. This would be my third chat this month, if I recalled correctly. I didn’t mind the chats so much. Particularly, I loved his gaze when he spoke: it was always fixed and completely inanimate. His eyes were concentric circles — each made of slightly different shades of ocean blue stones. The outermost rim was light green like the shallow ocean, and the inner rim was a deeper blue. The colors in his eyes would reflect the warm sun that peered generously through the floor-to-ceiling windows of his office overlooking midtown Manhattan. Most of what he said usually dissolved into a blur for me as I held his gaze and patiently waited for a movement in his eyes. I never found one.
Meanwhile scientists weighed in, “The grains are not made of any known element in the periodic table, or of any substance ever known to man, but at this point we have no evidence of these being harmful to us. We advise caution though. We are investigating whether this might be some manifestation of climate change. No results to report yet.”
Hundreds of cleaners were dispatched by city officials to wipe the streets clean of the grains and load the congealed mounds into trucks to be dumped into the Hudson — which didn’t seem too cautious for the river-dwellers to me. Neither fire nor water appeared to have any effect on the grains, leaving city officials at a loss as to how to dispose or destroy them.
My manager waved me in when I finally went to see him at the end of the day. Reliably, his office glowed in orange and gold from an early fall sunset. His pale skin was bathed in red when he began speaking, sitting like a dark quivering shadow on the other side of the table.
“I wanted to speak to you about …” I had already tuned out, or perhaps his voice had trailed off.
“You look very concerned, what are you looking at? Is everything okay?” I think he kept saying.
There was something outside his window that held my attention. For the second time since I had first seen and felt the grains, I felt swept up but aware, present but distant, rooted in the world but floating above it.
On the other side of the street from our office, on top of the Ziegfield Theater, rose another structure in all its art deco glory and detail. The structure did not look anything like the current theater but said in clear letters on top and vertically on the side “Ziegfield.” And another point of difference — this structure was made entirely of the grains that had fallen from the sky since that morning.
The only words that I finally heard from my manager, when I managed to shift my gaze back to his lips were, “So, I am sorry to say, we have to let you go.”
I had opened my mouth to speak, but now I shut it back up. I stared at his unblinking stony gaze for what may have been a good few minutes, because after a while he said “Riva, are you okay? This is hard I know.”
I did not ask him why he was firing me, as I am sure he had gone over it while I was hypnotized by the structure outside. A very pregnant silence followed, one where I considered whether I should ask him to repeat everything he had already told me — which would reveal that I had not been listening the first time. Was that polite? Since he had just fired me did I even need to be polite anymore? The sun had set, lights had come on in his office . Through his window I watched a purple blue sky frame him on one side and next to him, an imposing structure made of grains. Both his hands were on the table, as if he was bracing himself for something. For the first time since working there I saw his lips pursed. Even more striking, I thought I saw his eyes move, come together, narrow ever so slightly. I suppose none of this felt too out of place in a day full of so many bizarre offerings. I said nothing and, not that I remember, I eventually must have left his office. I was aware that my world had just changed dramatically — but so had the world I lived in. I wasn’t sure which one to be more concerned about. For an instant I even thought the two were somehow related.
It had stopped raining some time during the day. As I walked home, it seemed as if the whole city had descended to watch this structure that had created itself atop the Ziegfield Theater. Not an inch remained to walk in between the crowds. Camera crews from news stations, people with their cell phones, office-goers returning from work, people with children. As crowds jostled to get a glimpse of the structure, an old lady with her walker and I stood with our backs to the wall of an office building waiting for the crowd to dissipate. The soft skin on her cheeks hung loose like lazy hammocks. She looked up at the structure with her clear blue eyes, then turned to me muttering something inaudibly. She wore bright red lipstick and, despite years forming contours on her skin, she had a glow on her face and in her eyes as she muttered again. I moved closer to hear her. Struggling to look up all the way at the structure created by the grains, in a soft but crackling voice she said, “That is how I remember the Ziegfield Theater. It used to be a few blocks to the west. We had lined the streets back then to stop its demolition, but they tore it down anyway. Not a day goes by without me thinking of that old theater, where I worked for many years.” I managed a feeble smile for the old lady but was too stunned to ask her anything else. I turned and walked a few additional blocks around the crowd and rushed home.
At home, I lay on my bed in the clothes I had worn all day. I wondered how I would start my day in the mornings now. Should I finally go over to that new coffee shop and ask for a job? Why had the grains arranged themselves into an old building that existed in the collective memory of some of us? What else were these grains capable of? What would happen tomorrow? My bed was against the wall with my only window. I gazed out as if to find or see something different. Now the view of walls closing in on all sides was comforting, even protective. I wondered if any of the grains had made it through that little patch of sky up on top. The confused whir of thoughts inside my head refused to subside.
By early next morning, the grains of sand rained all over the world. The state and federal governments finally issued a statement. The grains were an attack from an intelligent life form from somewhere else. They were an attack by aliens.
It wasn’t clear if the aliens had caused this downpour while they watched from above, or if the grains were aliens themselves. But what was known was that the grains had cognitive ability. There was no explanation as to how this downpour that had penetrated the stratosphere from outer space had somehow escaped every weather camera, but that was under further investigation. Schools and offices were to remain closed until it was considered safe to venture out. It was all happening exactly as we had seen in countless science fiction movies and books, except there were millions, possibly billions of these little aliens rather than large, unsightly beings who descended from spacecraft and could be tracked.
I strained to open my eyes and when I did I was still facing my window. No sign of the grains. I realized I had nowhere to be. A familiar whiff came to me, though I couldn’t quite place it. I also felt something soft and warm against my back. This was odd, I even thought I felt a claw. I turned around and as I did, I realized beads of sweat had gathered on my neck on shoulders, perhaps from sleeping in my work clothes. My next impulse was to leap from my bed, which I did when I saw what was next to me on my bed. My throat and mouth went dry and my heart felt like it was being squeezed by iron claws. My hands and feet went cold. I couldn’t move. I realized for a minute that I had lost my voice too, because I screamed but no sound came out. She was there lying comfortably curled beside the imprint of my body on the mattress on my bed. Her eyes were closed as she lay with her head facing a little to one side, just like she always slept. Except this time she was made entirely of the grainy, minute hexagons. It was Sadie.
I thought of calling 911, though I knew I wouldn’t get through. Slowly she opened her eyes and stood up on the bed, jumped to the ground, and rolled on to her back like she did every morning when she wanted her belly rubbed. I stood still with my back against the wall, my lips parched and a trickle of sweat running down my face and neck. I pulled myself together and tried to shoo her away. I opened the door so she would perhaps go outside. She didn’t. Even as I tried to make her leave, she sat by the door and looked at me with her sad eyes as she did when she wanted to go for a walk. I stood there watching her, and struggled to take large gasps of air to breathe.
“There is no confirmation yet about the effect of these grains on humans. The President has pledged all necessary resources to investigate the impact of these grains. Until then people are strongly advised to clean every inch of their homes wearing protective masks while looking for grains and piling them into garbage bags. Special trucks will be dispatched every few hours to collect the bags. Do not touch, inhale or ingest the grains under any circumstances.”
At least initially, many hung on to all this well-intentioned advice. I tried, too. I refused to pet Sadie or give her food. I even kicked her. I told myself this wasn’t Sadie but a trick by a sinister alien. But Sadie was exactly as I remembered her. She stuck out her tongue and wagged her tail as she always did while I made minced meat, which was her favorite. She knew exactly when I was sleepy and curled up next to me so I could cuddle with her and sleep. She was how I remembered her best, as a puppy. I finally managed to steel myself and took her out of the house for a walk and left her tethered to a pole and walked back home alone. In a few hours, though, I brought her back. She was my Sadie.
Soon reports flooded in of women cuddling little babies made of astrosand, as these were now called; children playing with other children made of astrosand; grandparents walking the parks with grandchildren made of astrosand; couples kissing on a park bench although one of them was astrosand; a human couple with astrosand children. But there was still no clarity on what these particles were made of. Or why they were here.
In a few months though, chemists created an acidic compound that could destroy astrosand. It was to be available in every pharmaceutical store for a subsidized amount. The unproven hypothesis though was that as long as there were some of these astrosand grains in the world, our memories could be recreated. So in a way it was futile to devise means of destroying them, as no one wanted to; they had manifested as our loved ones. The only solution was to disown them.
There were somber messages and warnings from the President. “Please remember these sand figures are not your loved ones. For your own well-being and that of others, please distance yourself from them, as their impact on human beings is still not known.” But most of us held on to our memories made of sand, vulnerable as ever.
Since then, activist groups have emerged in support of astrosand and astrosand loved ones. Their message is “Since there is no evidence to support that they would in any way harm us and, in fact, have given solace to so many of us, they have a right to live with their loved ones just like the rest of us. Let’s not discriminate against them just because they are different.” That part got a little complicated when the first report came of an astrosand brother hurting his human sister who was competing for attention from their mother. To their supporters this was inevitable: astrosand beings were as real and as flawed or perfect as we remembered them to be.
All astrosand monuments have been torn down and demolished. All except one — the freshest wound in the world’s memory. This one now stands as tall as the original building. Everyone tiptoes around it, and it has been intact just as it was when it came up. Some wealthy benefactors even plan to build a guarded enclosure around it. Even the government is shying away from tearing it down because seeing the twin towers crumble again would open up a wound that hasn’t healed yet.
Religious groups have strongly condemned relationships with astrosand beings. They are not allowed in places of worship as they are not God’s creatures. There have been several reported murders of astrosand people by devout followers of various religions. On a train, a few drunk boys stripped an astrosand woman naked so they could tell if she looked like a real woman. No one has been punished so far for these crimes, as astrosand people are not people yet according to the law; they are merely a manifestation of our memories. Consequently, they can be recreated. (Perhaps so, but it still hurts every time.) Conspiracy theories abound about the government planning a massive scale annihilation of astrosand and everything made of them. It’s a scary world for them, but more importantly for us.
To me, it’s fascinating that our much anticipated alien attack transpired like this — as dear, lost loved ones for some, and for others as pesky little grains of sand that had to be cleaned out from window sills and sidewalks.
I am just glad that there is no easy way to get rid of them. It still rains sometimes.

Sandfall
I remember that day like it was yesterday. It was supposed to have rained the night before and into the morning, but I couldn’t tell from my…
Superposition
Time travel was the ultimate weapon
The voidship Venture had been lost for almost four hundred years.
In the dark between the stars, the Venture finally passed back into the light of an Imperial sun. As the ice vaporizes off the hull, its pitted surface showed the wear and tear of ‘stratum travel and the transition back to C space. As the sunlight strikes the hull, the radiation of the star feeds the living mind of the ship fresh photons, barely used, only dropped once, most less than a million years old.
Approaching service vessels scan the ancient voidship, verify its design, its manufacture, its hull number. Before they can deploy a crew, the ship awakens, scans its location and a pulse can be felt as the very fabric of space shudders.
Then the voidship Venture, disappears.
<CAUSALITY FAILURE IMMINENT >
I’ve recently lost my vision. It was a gradual thing, a wavelength here, some bandwidth there, an occasional blind spot which might grow as much as one-one-hundredth of a degree a year. Doesn’t seem like much but when you pile on the years, it begins to matter.
I worked for the Imperial Navy. I went into service over five thousand Standard Years ago. I had traveled to distant corners of the Imperium and over the years collected a tale or two, spun a few more and now most recently had become part of one or two. That happened if you live long enough, were good enough at your job and sought advancement with vigor.
When I retired, I began to work in medical trade and transfer. No matter where you go, if its alive, then sooner or later it will get sick. Except for the Foilians, who made of pure silicon, could make the claim they never got sick. For the rest of us, there were old-timers like me who, while now no longer capable of serving on the front line, could still help the ever-growing Imperium.
A voidship’s life is never dull.
<’STRATUM FIELD COLLAPSING>
The last run was a long jump from one end of the Imperium to the other. Long jumps are tricky because you travel in the substratum of C space, avoiding limitations such as the C Barrier. This substratum is vulnerable to the drive technology we use allowing ships to drop into this space, temporarily allowing us to exceed the speed of light. This is the relevant part, we discovered our stardrives affect the ‘Stratum causing disruptions we will eventually called warp storms. These disruptions are temporal, resetting local reality, or making voidships disappear altogether.
Travel through the void as it was called, became more regulated and technologies developed to see and detect warp storms. Like real storms however, it was an imperfect science. Our mission of mercy was caught by a rogue wave and flung back into C space. Our causality drive down, we would be restricted to C space and nearly three hundred years of travel to return home.
I have held the crew in stasis for over two hundred years. Of the original sixty crew members fourteen remain. The captain and first officer died twenty seven years ago and I assumed command of the mission. With only periodic wakings for course corrections, the crew would have to remain in stasis for another twenty five before we cross back into Imperial Space.
Our life support and stasis generation hardware was rated for two hundred years of superluminal performance. It was never designed for this type of sublight journey. I estimate at the rate of failure, only I will make the trip home.
It is my recommendation this mission not be undertaken. This message will be broadcast upon arrival in Imperial Space.
VINLOGID: Venture; voidship intelligence, Imperial Navy, Retired.
<PROBABILITIES SUPERPOSITION FIXED.>
“So it’s confirmed. Only the ship makes it back?”
“Yes. In thirty-three percent of the events. Otherwise, no one does.”
“Run it again.”
“But we already have. This is the thirteenth time. The rogue wave event always happens.”
“I’ll inform the crew once they’re stable. Lorencia has been lost to the War.”
The captain put down his long and disgusting cigar in his private quarters. He checked the stabilizers after the flight and prepared to sync the memories of the crew.
This would be the worst one yet.
<FINAL ITERATION.>
His fellow crewmen looked stunned at each other as the previous reality folded itself into their current consciousnesses. Each absorbed their eventual fates, most with dignity, a few in horror, and one or two sobs could be heard in the mess hall.
Even the voidship itself grew quiet, its powerful engines which could always be felt thrumming through the walls, pondered its decisions in that fateful future. Being the only survivor of a mission is never good.
The PA system coughs before a gravelly voice filled the air of the voidship. “This is the captain speaking. The last medical delivery we were about to take into Lorencian space has been cancelled. I know many of you have family there, but it is… inadvisable for us to go. Another causality run will be attempted by another crew in two weeks.”
He paused before continuing. “Please report to medical if you have experienced any shock or trauma you want to talk about due to recent causality. All crew are granted two weeks leave after clearance from medical staff. No off-planet travel is authorized or recommended until superposition fluctuations have settled. If you feel yourself randomly moving in spacetime, seek stabilization immediately.”
The captain switched off his public address and stared down at his uniform. He had been in the military for nearly two hundred years, flown thousands of casualities. He had never once questioned his decision to be an officer on a voidship.
<UNAUTHORIZED SUPERPOSITION. PLEASE CORRECT.>
His world shuddered and he was standing on beach, looking at a folding chair, a towel a tall drink and a old fashioned book whose yellowed pages showed signs of many pleasurable reads with folded corners, a crinkled and barely visible cover. Reflexively, he looked at his wrist and the voidwatch quantum calculator. It indicated he was superimposed with another reality, one a bit farther from his home reality than most. The calculator pinged the local military base indicating there was a stabilizer there and the possibility of returning if he could make it to that military base less than ten minutes away.
He knew nothing about his current existence in this reality, he had no idea if he worked, what he did, who he was. His body was fit, he felt light, freed of the responsibilities of old. Watching his superposition timer count down, he waited, wondering if they would send anyone after him.
As it reached zero without incident, he released a sigh as the tension left his body.
He threw his voidwatch into the sea, picked up his drink and sat down to read the adventures of a Captain Ahab and his intrepid crew.
Superposition © Thaddeus Howze 2013, All Rights Reserved

Superposition
genre: science fiction
The Woman Who Fell in Love with a Postmodern Building and Set Her Lover’s Boat on Fire
Even a house can fall in love.
Chiara Lys nearly suffered a heart attack, and the strongest orgasm of her life, on her first trip to Prague. Her Prince Charming was all curves and sharp angles in the sun, deliberate — steel and glass, concrete and rebar. Chiara’s two boyfriends didn’t exactly cotton to the European stranger.
As an edifice mage, this response was a normal one, as her nature demanded she be able to communicate with buildings, particularly those with unusual appearances and the attendant distinct personalities.

Chiara learned early that most buildings were a dull and sleepy lot, conceived by safe architects whose powers of imagination were properly stifled by the Administration of Dull Designers. That isn’t what they are really called, it’s just what most edifice mages, used to denote the soul-crushing, design-stifling and spirit-repelling modern architecture created today.
She came into her powers early, talking to old homes in her quiet home in Salam. As a child she would often find the oldest homes in her neighborhood and hold long conversations with them. The spirits housed within were eager to find someone who could speak their language; a song of wood and stone, a song of love and labor, imagination and evocation, yes these were what the spirits of well-made homes spoke of effortlessly and at great length.
She never tired of hearing the tales of people who lived in those homes. Some happily raising families, other tragic and burdened with struggle. She tended to like those troubled stories more. Something about adversity piqued her voyeuristic nature.
Eventually she was sent to school, at first to learn then second to harness her abilities. Chiara loved the learning but hated her gifts. At first, they seemed harmless, but she learned of a darker aspect of her abilities and this caused her great distress.
Her power could be used to spy on people.
Since buildings were eager to talk to her, she could ask them questions about anything happening inside of them and they would, without morals or strictures, tell her about anyone who dwelled within.
The Department of Homeland Security simply had to keep her close. Strangely enough, most edifice mages were members of the government working as security operatives and anti-terrorists agents.
Chiara decided that was not the life for her. She wanted to spend her time, interrogating old buildings in Europe, because frankly they had the best stories. With a mind suited to the Agency, she used her powers to blackmail her bosses and they were only too happy to let her go.
Hotels could be such gossips.
She made her way to Europe and found herself in Prague. The old buildings there were classically European, haughty, dignified, and a tiny bit reserved. But they had lived through wars, battles, coups, and style changes which distorted the outsides of the buildings but left their inner hearts richer for the experience. A few buildings in the oldest cities had their entire spirit housed in a cornerstone, sometimes the only remnant of their original structure remaining.
But her trip to Prague was not without incident. For you see, she had two buildings she was already in love with and they with her. They had learned to tolerate each other since they were in different cities. Each knew about the other and did everything they could to gain her attention. But like a butterfly, she was always drawn to the next strange building.

She had contented herself with the two buildings she loved, one, a fashionable structure, an old world church in New York, who called himself Churchill, which had been around for nearly two hundred years. It’s voice, resonant and deep spoke to her inner spirit, ennobled her to embrace her ability and to do good in the world. It was the church which convinced her to use her powers for a greater good.
She did. She freed the spirits of the dead from homes where they had been trapped in Limbo by the house.
The other was a home on the edge of a pier complete with its own boat. This house was the rugged individualist. He wanted nothing to do with most people and unlike most houses, was taciturn and sullen. But he took to Chiara and opened up, sharing his innermost thoughts.
What do houses think about more than anything else? Travel.
Chiara would take her adventures of exorcising those lost spirits and write them down so she could recount them to Pierce, her home on the bay in Quincy, Massachusetts.
Pierce hated Churchill because it was his words that drove Chiara to travel. Travel which took her away from Pierce for weeks at a time. He sulked for days after she would return home. She always had calming words and brought him fruit and other things whose scent would linger in the house for days.
He would always relent in the end. They would make up and she would then recount all of her adventures.
Until Prague.
There, a new building caught her eye. His non-Euclidean corners, his warped windows, his alien design, all things that would have, should have, repelled her, instead gave her the strongest orgasm she had ever known. To be honest, she rarely felt this way about anything. Churchill never made her feel this way and Pierce was too self-absorbed to give her anything like this feeling.
He called himself Karls. Made by an eccentric architect who, soon after completing Karls, went quietly mad. Karls was the personification of said madness, twisted, distorted, his inner spirit matched his outer appearance.
Chiara spent some of everyday with Karls, listening to the stories of the workers within, hearing the tales of wonder about the realm where the spirits of buildings lived before they were born here. You see, neither of her American houses knew much of their origins, they were both old men, with old minds. Karls was new, and though his accent was thick, he shared his knowledge freely.
This endeared Karls to her until that fateful day when Karls drove someone to leap from his twentieth story window.
Chiara watched in horror as Karls whispered in the ear of the poor bastard preparing to leap to his death. She would beg Karls to help the man but the newly minted building simply kept talking until the man leapt free into oblivion.
He landed only a few feet from Chiara.
Karls consumed his spirit with gusto.
Her second orgasm was more powerful than the first. Chiara left Prague that afternoon.
On her way home, she conversed with Churchill and Pierce. She carried a piece of both of them with her at all times in her purse. She learned to keep the pieces separate lest neither want to speak to her while listening to the other’s responses.
Churchill, of course, said it was the way of all things, to pass into the next life, and Pierce thought it was best for the fellow if he couldn’t make his way in the world, that he should shuffle off this mortal coil, making room for others more suited.
Chiara was enraged by that perspective.
Karls had all but committed murder and she watched. And she felt his enjoyment.
No good could come of this. She decided to go to Pierce but his anger was too great. He couldn’t understand what she saw in the twisted lines of that European.
They had their loudest argument ever. Pierce refused to let her leave the house until they settled it. This was the last straw for Chiara. She walked out onto the small pier where Pierce and she would sail the bay and talk about the future.
She calmly got on the small boat she bought many years ago with her fees as an exorcist, which paid handsomely I might add, and set the boat on fire.
Pierce screamed, for you see, travel, the ability to move from place to place was something houses loved more than anything. Most buildings never spoke of their envy of the mobile. They always talked of stability, of history, of longevity. They never mentioned their envy of things that could move and could see the world.
This was the secret pain of buildings.
Pierce was a proud building. Made in the late 1800s he had been built and rebuilt, and even suffered a fire in the 1930s which had destroyed almost all of him never broke his spirit. But he was deathly afraid of flame and the burning of his boat, for he thought of it as his, enraged him.
He railed at Chiara and she yelled back while the boat burned behind her.
Once the boat was a charred husk, she saw the deck door open and the front door did as well. She went inside and packed her bags. They had reached a point where there were no words between them.
Packing didn’t take long.
The burning smell of the boat lingered and she wondered what drove her to do such an impulsive thing.
She could feel Karls whispering in her ear. She had taken a flower from the courtyard in front of the building and placed it in a book she carried with her. Realizing this, she took the book and tossed it onto the burning boat as well.
Karls faded, his voice, his twisted shape in a city of very regular buildings, with cleanly mapped out streets, in a city designed by artists and perhaps by madmen, receded into memory. A vivid memory it would take years for Chiara to completely forget.
She left Pierce, watching the slow spiral of smoke rising into the distance. She still carried the tile from the bathroom wall in her purse. She thought one day the two of them might reconcile and remain friends.
Pierce doubted this, strongly.
Chiara returned to New York before she returned to Prague. She didn’t go to see Karls because news reported several others had leapt to their deaths in the months after her visit.
Eventually she found her way there after another nine people had perished from Karl’s rooftop.
Pierce had been right, only she could stop this.
Chiara Lys waited until the night of the full moon and entered the building, forcing the door open with her powers. Karls resisted but she would not be stopped. Doors opened at her will and a wind followed her.
She climbed all twenty stories with her power gathering with in her. She reached the roof and reached out to the city around her. The voices of the normally sleepy buildings rose in concert. They could feel what she was asking of them and would consent to lend her their power. Only the three buildings surrounding Karls resisted. They had tasted of the deaths of men and found them sweet.
Chiara channeled the city’s frustration with Karls and in the basement, a gas main broke as a minor earthquake rocked the foundations. Karls fought, he broke his windows sending shards of glass flying. A cloud of razor sharp glass wove skyward even as the flames engulfed the lower floors.
The cloud of glass cut Chiara but the wind that traveled with her blunted the attack. The building’s gas lines began to explode, one after another. The adjacent buildings also tried to help but being old and sleepy, they could barely rouse themselves to do more than shout as the fire spread.
Once the fire was unable to be stopped, Chiara reached out to the city and borrowed its strength for herself.
She leapt from the roof and landed behind the burning structures out of sight of the local fire department.
Karls didn’t understand why Chiara did what she did. She couldn’t explain it to him that some buildings were born of madness and embodied that madness. Not every building had this. Some just caused nightmares, some revulsion in their viewers. But every so often, a building would take great pleasure in the deaths of it’s tenants.
Those were the buildings that Chiara’s gift was made for.
She returned to Churchill and for days sat quietly among the pews. Churchill didn’t speak, he just comforted her with his awesome presence. She knew what she had to do. Churchill wished her luck.
She bought a boat and sailed into Quincy.
The deck door was open.

The Woman Who Fell in Love with a Postmodern Building and Set Her Lovers’ Boat on Fire © Thaddeus Howze 2014, All Rights Reserved
http://www.startyournovel.com/2014/01/the-woman-who-fell-in-love-with.html

Thaddeus Howze is a California-based author who work has appeared in magazines, including The Huffington Post, The Enemy, Quora.com, Black Enterprise, the Good Men Project, the Examiner.com, Scifiideas.com andAstronaut.com. You can follow his mad rantings on Twitter or on his blog at A Matter of Scale.
His speculative fiction has appeared in numerous anthologies including: The Future is Short II (2015), The Future is Short (2014), Mothership: Tales of Afrofuturism and Beyond (2013), Genesis Science Fiction Anthology (2013), Scraps (2012), , and Possibilities (2011). He has authored a collection of short stories called Hayward’s Reach (2011) and a novella called Broken Glass (2013).
You can get a taste of his speculative fiction right here on Medium.com or head over to Hub City Blues for a diverse collection of speculative fiction covering anything from superheroes to Lovecraftian deities from beyond the stars… If you really like it, you can buy his books from Amazon or support his work onPatreon.com.


The Woman Who Fell in Love with a Postmodern Building and Set Her Lover’s Boat on Fire
Noir Space
Abandonment
Sophie Maus
“Ellen,” Jenny said, “Ellen,” but Ellen was absentmindedly looking out the window, so Jenny repeated raising her voice, “Ellen!”
“Huh, I’m sorry Jenny. I didn’t hear you, I mean I heard you, but… never mind, come here.”
“No listen, Maddy is trying to contact you.” Jenny said waving her smartscreen around.
“Oh, I left my screen on the transport. Anyway, just come here something is going on down there.” Ellen hadn’t turned away from the window.
Jenny threw her smartscreen on the couch and made her way to the window. She stood next to Ellen, their shoulders imperceptibly touching. The window was off and you could see the city’s buildings rising into the clouds. “Where?” Jenny asked.
“Down there near 5th and 103rd.”
Jenny gasped, “What is going on?”
“I don’t know. The peacekeepers evacuated the police. Oh my god!” Ellen put both hands against the window.
“What?”
Ellen pounded on the window, “Get out of there… get out of there…”
Jenny followed Ellen’s gaze and covered her mouth, “Oh… What is going on?” She asked again, “Call Maddy, Ellen, call him right now.” Jenny turned from the window and ran to unlock the door. When she turned around Ellen was still at the window. “Ellen! Call Maddy!” She shouted.
Ellen finally reacted and picked up the smart screen on the couch. “Call Maddy Marquez.” The screen blipped, but Maddy did not answer. “Maddy pick up the phone. Listen, I left my phone on the transport, but things are getting bad down here. We are going to leave, meet us at,” Ellen paused and looked at Jenny, who gestured at her eye, “meet us at the eye. Remember the eye, meet us at the eye, e-y-e.” Ellen swiped the screen off, and turned to the window again.
“We have to get out of here, but how?”
Ellen backed away from the window, “Let’s go!”
She grabbed Jenny by the hand and led her out the door, “It’s rising.”
When they reached the bottom floor, the water was already pouring into the building. There was a group of people gathered at the bottom of the stairwell screaming at each other.
Jenny asked the nearest person, a rotund man, what was going on. He said, “The water is boiling hot. We don’t know what to do.”
“What about the peacekeepers?” Ellen shouted over the noise.
The man responded, “They left, moved on to the next building.”
“Come on Ellen.” Jenny shouted and started running up the stairs.
They reached the roof.
“The water keeps rising Jenny!” Ellen said when she reached the ledge of the building. “Give me your screen, I’m going to call Maddy again.” Jenny handed Ellen the screen. “Call Maddy.”
“Service is unavailable.”
A cloud of gushing water shot from the ground 100 feet above where the girls stood on the roof. The raindrops that fell back burned the skin. Both Jenny and Ellen screamed from the pain and ran for cover. People started pouring into the roof.
They hid under a decorative porch. The water kept shooting up from all sides of the building.
“Ellen, what are we going to do, what are we going to do?”
“It’s too late now.”
They held each other in silence. The crowd had surrounded them. Some people screamed incoherently, while others prayed to their gods.
“Ellen! Jenny!” They heard a man’s cry somewhere in the crowd.
“Maddy!” Ellen shouted.
Maddy’s shouts grew closer, and as they both moved towards his shouts. They were finally at the edge where the boiling droplets were scalding those not under the porch. People were fighting to get under the porch. They saw him under the raining hell. His skin was full of boils. Ellen immediately went to hug him, but he recoiled in pain. They were both under the scorching rain.
“We have to get out of here.” Jenny shouted over the crowd.
“There is no way out.” Maddy said, “The thermos are spilling the lava from deep inside the Earth. It is causing the oceans to expand. The thermo under the city cracked also. That is why the water is scolding hot; under all of this lava is gushing out at an incredible rate.”
“Is there an evacuation?” Ellen whispered.
“No, they... we are on our own.”

Noir Space
Abandonment
“Ellen,” Jenny said, “Ellen,” but Ellen was absentmindedly looking out the window, so Jenny…
Enough
A young genius is asked to shepherd humanity into a Second Stone Age
She was as sharp and crisp as a newly printed dollar bill; edges still firm, resisting folding, spindling or mutilating. Dark brown skin, high firm cheekbones highlighted in the lobby’s early morning light. Her power suit, purse and pumps indicated she was ready to work.
Right out of Dartmouth she came highly recommended from her several externships with local media companies. In another life, Francis would have considered her pretty, in that cold professional way women have begun to be seen. A man wasn’t supposed to notice what they looked like. Only what they thought about.
In this way, women had finally achieved parity with men. They now had the freedom to be completely ignored. So Francis did. He was only interested in her academic qualities, her scholastic abilities, and her sociopathic tendencies. She rated seven on the scale, selfish enough to put her own survival above anyone else’s but charismatic enough to make you believe she cared.
She was perfect. He hurried down from the mezzanine to meet her.
“Good morning, Ms. Ross. Are you ready to begin work?”
She assessed me. Quickly, visual scan from shoes to hat. She lingered on my wedding ring, an imperceptible second, then made her way to my eyes. Cold. Centered. Focused. She held my gaze before smiling and extending her hand with the perfect amount of pressure. I respond and reflect her back. No more pressure than necessary.
She smells of honeysuckle. Surprising.
“Yes I am, sir.”
“Follow me. We’ll be using the executive lift.”
She was being watched and I think she knew. Thirty psychometric teams were scanning her, watching her every movement, every micro-expression. We had to know if she could be the one. The last three candidates had failed to pass muster and were… retired. We had high hopes.
I decided to take her to her workspace. We had tried to ease the previous workers into the idea of their job but that had failed. Today, I decided we would do something different. “How was your flight to the ship?”
“It was fine. I didn’t expect to travel quite so far but the crew was real nice and the accommodations were wonderful.”
“Good, I think we will skip the normal office and introductions and take you straight to your workspace, if that’s okay. You can meet the team later.”
“That’s fine, I am eager to see what a Resource Management Specialist does for Colcorp.”
“Besides manage resources? My dear, you will be determining the fate of a world.”
Her micro-expressions revealed blushing and her small but well-managed afro vibrated with her amusement. Her activated hair implants were capable of emotive response. Only the best for this lady.
When we arrived at her door, the security guards scanned us and then gave us access to the control panel.
With a brief handprint and retinal scan, I was identified. “Colson, Edward Francis, President.”
She took her turn. “Ross, Marilaine, Director, Resource Management, pending.”
The door opened. It was a huge vault door, similar to the ones used by banks. It opened outward, with the solid steel rods retracted and barely visible at the edges. The air smell crisp, cold, highly refrigerated. Servers could be seen in the distance lining the outer edge of the room. An entire wall was filled with monitors, flipping between a multitude of images, constantly changing. People of all colors and economic backgrounds could be seen. Different countries, famous landmarks, social catastrophe zones were all equally represented.
There were two people working in the office already but they did not turn away from whatever they were doing and did not acknowledge the CEO or the director at all.
The most important wall was on the left of the main door entrance. On this wall were counters. Hundreds of them. Almost all were counting down. A rare few were counting up. Many were dark, a couple went dark as the two of them drew close. They were immediately replaced with new counters.
“How do you like it?”
“I’m not sure what I am looking at.”
“The resources of the entire world. Everything we ever need, ever use, ever want. Every widget, every technology, everything. If Colcorps can find it, manipulate it or destroy it, we track it here.”
“Excuse me?” Her face revealed her incredulity. Her sharp mind was already wrapping itself around the impossibility of the statement.
Start with the truth. We can lie later. “It’s the year 2104. You have seen what is left of the world as we know it. Your native Haiti has all but vanished under the rising sea level. Colcorp has consolidated the best technologies, the best surveillance systems and our specialized resource algorithm which allows us to predict which resources are going to vanish or become unsustainable next.”
Pause for effect. “Look at that gauge. It is tracking desertification worldwide in feet per year. ISSAC, if you would, explode ‘desertification’ please.”
“Desertification, exploded, broken down by region, deserts, sustainable or unsustainable, temperature ranges, exploited or still pending.” ISSAC’s response was especially modulated to invoke calmness, no matter what he might be displaying.
The graphic flew from the wall and was suspended in three dimensions. She could see graphs of the world’s oldest deserts and newest. How fast they grew, where they were growing, who lived near them, what effect these deserts were having and whether solar facilities had been established within them to take advantage of their only resource, vast amounts of solar energy.
Matching screens on the walls flashed to different feeds of the deserts, some showing sustainable deserts where if sufficient water were available, some level of life for humans could be maintained. Unsustainable deserts like most of the Sahara only showed the rippling of the desert, like a crystalline ocean, its waves frozen on its surface.
“Are you telling me you haven’t noticed it? Your food should be your first clue. How many things from your youth taste as good as they did then?”
Marilaine had never given it much thought until this moment. She had spent a little time in her native Haiti before it was lost in a superstorm and remember her grandmother’s cooking of the native plants and animals. When she moved to the Allied America, the first thing she had to get used to was the machine-prepared food. But now that she was thinking about it, the quality of food had changed recently. Bread was flatter, less flavorful. As if the ingredients were being stretched across a neutral filler, bereft of flavor.
She looked around the room, reading the displays until she found what she was looking for. “ISSAC, please expand aqueous plant fillers.” This was one of the few numbers rising instead of falling. Once broken out she could see most of this was seaweeds and plankton, much of it grown in artificial inland seas, or in the few remaining unpoisoned ocean areas. Carrageenans had been expanded and utilized in almost every processed food as a binding agent; a bland, tasteless filler.
She has begun to understand. Marilaine moved around the room looking at each of the displays, her face unchanging as a stone. ISSAC complied with her requests and she found her way to a section of the room where displays were winking out. One of them was marked Humanity. One of the counters was down to single digits. She waved her hand and brought up the display. It showed two aged giraffes in a zoo. Both looked sickly and the zookeepers stood by with rifles in hand. With the two mercy rounds, the last two giraffes vanished from her display board and the counter fell to zero.
Her composure began to crack.
“What do you want me to do with this? Am I supposed to sit here and watch as these things become extinct? Or as the population of Indochina is wiped out by the next super-typhoon?”
And here’s the lie.
“No. We want you to manage this. We want you to find ways of slowing this erosion of the Earth. Figure out ways to divert resources, move people, harness skills. You have five different degrees and a degree of synergistic thinking we have never seen. You have the ego to believe you can do something like this and the willpower to carry it out. Every resource at our disposal is yours to command. You answer only to me.”
This was the first time she appeared to be the young twenty-eight year old woman she actually was. Her face softened, her eyes lost their steely glint and she leaned on a console casually, her composure momentarily gone. “Why are you lying to me?”
“I don’t understand.”
“I have been here for little over an hour and I can already see this is impossible. And that most of what you are claiming has already failed. Computer technology is already on a downward spiral. Your space program can’t get the rare earths you need for the designs for your engine prototypes. Food quality and nutritional value is diminishing. People are starving faster than you can create empty calories for them to eat. From where I stand this project is stinking of failure.”
“ISSAC, please reveal Genesis. Ms. Ross, this is what we need from you. To save Genesis.”
Forty years later, the human race died; right on schedule.
Marilaine Ross helped wind down the world. She saved lives when she could. She gathered the remaining scientists, thinkers, engineers, and leaders. The best the world had to offer. In the end, governments failed. Corporate power waned and mankind fell to barbarism.
Billions died. She worked tirelessly knowing her time was running out. The three starships of Project Genesis would be her last work. As the gauges went out and the displays died, the control room grew darker and darker until only a few remained. The last timer counting down was Genesis.
In ten days, the last of the three ships would be gone. On day eight, the senior Colson, her husband of twenty years, died.
He died protecting the last computer components from roving bands which broke down the walled enclave where ISSAC and Resource Command was located.
He was carried back by their son, Francis. There were no words exchanged. He dropped his father’s body inside the vaulted room and went to install the final components for launch.
Project Genesis, Resource Command, no longer bustled. It was cold and dark, protected only by automated systems. The younger Colson would be her final passenger. The great ship hung in the sky, next to Space Elevator Omega, barely visible with the naked eye, filled with tens of thousands of humans in a perfect stasis. Bound outside of time they waited. And they would wait. For as long as it took to reclaim the world.
Francis shuttled to the ship high above the Earth plugged the last module in and stepped into his stasis chamber. “Goodbye, Mother” were his final words to her.
Only when the last timer reached zero and the last monitor shut down, did Marilaine Ross, detach herself from ISSAC, complete the AI’s upload and climb from the nutritive bath which had sustained her semblance of youth.
Then a new timer started up. It had a one hundred year clock. Marilaine picked up the timer and put it on her wrist display. She finished drying off and dressed in the last advanced technology on Earth.
She walked outside for the first time in fifty years and looked toward the heavens as Genesis pulled away from the bounds of Earth’s gravity. Howling bands of humans screamed and tore at the fences sensing this final change in their fates. They would be alone with a Stone Age future ahead of them.
As Genesis rose turned outbound from the solar system, it would begin its spin-up to seventy percent the speed of light. It would still take nearly a hundred years for them to arrive at their destination, an Earthlike planet, larger, with more water, capable of supporting human life.
Fifty thousand humans, one hundred thousand embryos, fifty thousand Mechasmic Minds, the labor force of Project Genesis, the sum total of the best knowledge, and all the tools for rebuilding civilization. It would not be Earth. Its gravity was stronger, its climate wilder, it would be a struggle for survival. But she knew her son. He would never give up.
He was his father’s son.
Marilaine Ross strode down the street, breathing in the air, filled with the sharp tang of degrading toxins. With major industrialization gone, the sky was still cleaner than it had been in decades. As she approached the city walls, the people outside the gates were unsure of how to deal with her.
She was utterly fearless, her hair, long, braided whipped around her head like serpents. Her brown skin shown with an inner light, she was no longer Human and anyone seeing her would know this. They would feel it deep in their bones, the same awareness they would have used when confronting a deadly predator, when there were such predators. The last big cat died forty years ago. She was now the most dangerous creature on Earth.
Her body had been changed during those years in the nutritive bath. She was stronger, carbon laced her body, she was smarter, her neural net augmented by nano-technology. Baring catastrophic injury, she would live long enough to see Genesis reach its destination and beyond.
But that was not her goal. Her goal was to restore the Earth. To bring humanity back from the brink. There were approximately ten million humans left all over the world, living in burned out cities, scavenging from the remnants of the world that was.
Hers was the harder task. The once-ravaging hordes outside the gate, followed this tiny and strange woman, from a discrete distance, of course. Weapons falling from their hands, for the first time in generations, someone had a plan. They could sense it.
Her plan was simple. To give her son and the people of Genesis a home to return to. If they wanted it. Even with her modifications, she was certain she would not live to see their return, if they even could.
As Genesis reached Jupiter with a final dive into the planet’s mighty gravity well, the great ship, like its two breathren would slingshot around and taking advantage of a gravitation boost, head for its new home.
The last artificial intelligence, ISSAC would do its best to ensure an quiet journey. As the most powerful Mind ever created, it was sure its arrival in a new star system would be anything but uneventful.
It dimmed the lights onboard for its long journey before dreaming of electric sheep on virtual plains.
Marilaine Ross took the holographic timer down from the wall of her office and transferred the countdown for Genesis and its estimated arrival to her inner chronometer. It would be decades before she would need to check on it again.
She had to live in the present for the first time in a long time. No time delay, no decades long planning, no schemes to secure rare materials, no remote viewing. The vicissitudes and struggles would be hers.
A group of younger teens had already come closer to her than any of the others and signed if they could touch her. She hadn’t touched anyone in decades. She welcomed it. The scent of wild honeysuckle lingered on the breeze. She smiled. They came.
At the end of the world, with no future in sight, with mankind sitting back at the Second Stone Age, Marilaine Ross-Carlson came to life.
Enough © Thaddeus Howze 2014, All Rights Reserved

Thaddeus Howze is a popular and recently awarded Top Writer, 2016 recipient on the Q&A site Quora.com. He is also a moderator and contributor to theScience Fiction and Fantasy Stack Exchange with over fourteen hundred articles in a four year period.
Thaddeus Howze is a California-based technologist and author who has worked with computer technology since the 1980’s doing graphic design, computer science, programming, network administration, teaching computer science and IT leadership.
His non-fiction work has appeared in numerous magazines: Huffington Post, Gizmodo, Black Enterprise, the Good Men Project, Examiner.com, The Enemy, Panel & Frame, Science X, Loud Journal, ComicsBeat.com, and Astronaut.com. He maintains a diverse collection of non-fiction at his blog, A Matter of Scale.
His speculative fiction has appeared online at Medium, Scifiideas.com, and theAu Courant Press Journal. He has appeared in twelve different anthologies in the United States, the United Kingdom and Australia. A list of his published work appears on his website, Hub City Blues.

Enough
A young genius is asked to shepherd humanity into a Second Stone Age
42
Or a badly told parody of some part of the Hitchhiker’s Guide to the Galaxy.
Deep Thought by Bruno Murai @ Deviantart (http://fav.me/d3h74i3)
42 In a time, who knows when, an extremely advanced species known as the Ethereal Beings (some say they do not have a defined shape, but in Earth are best known as Rats), that had already solved all mathematical, physical, chemical, and biopsychosocial problems, reached an impasse: they do not have the solution for the Ultimate Question: What is the meaning of life, the universe and everything? That, by the way, seems to have strong tendencies to be answered tautologically.
As they, after all, were the cleverest beings populating the galaxy, they decided to build a large artificial brain that was entirely dedicated to seek the answer for the Ultimate Question. For this, they dedicated some million years designing and building a large computer, which then called Deep Thought. Its defined shape was not known, but some say that it was represented as a big squared head and something like a mouth and an eye. I think this was the most appropriate way they found to make it look friendly. But this was the least of their problems.
Once finished and “conscious”, the following order was given by the wise Elder-Mor to Deep Thought:
— We, the Ethereal, your creators, could not solve the only problem left to us, so we created you to give us the answer to Ultimate Question: “What is the meaning of life, the universe and everything?”
Deep Thought grimaced and said:
— Okay… 1 billion years from now I give you the answer…
The elders did not have time to agree. Deep Thought started to roll its eyes, as one who was in a cyber-trance state, and began to gather and analyze a giant’llion of data per second.
During the billion years many relevant facts occurred throughout the galaxy: entire systems were devastated by the draconian flu (imagine! infected people sneezed fire! Now imagine a million people doing it!); stars died, and whole worlds got completely immersed in the darkness (mainly because the galactic government program “Stars for all” had not come to them yet…); a new edition of the Hitchhiker’s Guide to the Galaxy was published; the slugs of Sillyum were taken to the intelligent species category; was the first Inter-systems Contest of Unfunny Jokes; the chimeras of Grotescum invented the wheel, and, of course, the Humans did not exist yet…
Passed all these times, come the Big Day of the most expected announcement of all times, spaces, folks, races, and governments of the galaxy. For this, the Ethereal, commissioned a planet to the hyperspace engineers of Magrathea, which they named Auditorium, and invited from neighboring species to those that inhabited the farthest reaches of the galaxy, many of which even did not know about the Ultimate Question.
In the Big Day, the planet was crowded of strange, beautiful, natural and artificial beings. It was so crowded that if some specimen provided by legs (or something similar) raised one of them for, say, to scratch the knee (or something similar), would not find place to put it back, it would have to watch the announcement on a single leg (or better, on a single leg on the floor at least).
It was a terrible noise when the Wise Elder-Mor’s voice sounded across the planet:
— Um..hum…
— Beings of all Galaxy*… Is with infinite pleasure, that we receive you from all corners in this great day. The day when we will know the answer to the Ultimate Question.
— Entire civilizations were forged in the hope of this answer, empires were completely overthrown because of it, but only today, for the happiness of the people, we will have it with us…
During a minute the silence fell all over the Auditorium. Only the representatives of a weird and extremely anxious species not more appropriately called Geckos, shook like green sugarcane making a annoying noise that echoed through kilometers, and resembled the sound of a vibrator (Vvvrrrrrrrr!). It’s worth to note that they were really strange: they had yellowish skin, goggled and “dead” eyes, and were toothy…
Exactly at the end of 60 seconds, the Elder-Mor turned to the Deep Thought, that returned to itself almost immediately, and, without hesitation, asked:
— Oh Deep Thought! What is the answer to the Ultimate Question, which is, What is the meaning of life, the universe and everything? Which we sacredly waited for 1 billion years?
Still half-eyed, Deep Thought took a deep breath and said:
— 42…
At the same time a deafening noise was made of voices protesting, shouting, hooting, and crying. The poor Geckos were flabbergasted, with drool dripping their mouth. Philosophers representatives of the planet Sophir were disappointed, and one of them shouted “Fallacy! Fallacy!”. For the most conservative of them it was the greatest metaphilosophical scam of all times, for others, however, it was the masterpiece of the Ultra-post-modern Philosophy. The slugs of Sillyum gave a thinly endless little laugh (Hihihihihihi!…). The representatives of the United Planets of the Galaxy protested angry, claiming this was the greatest information censorship ever seen: “this is an attack on democracy!”. They even cogitated a armed invasion to the Ethereal’s dimension, that, by the way, had a unknown model of political organization… Furthermore, the Asteroid Pirate’s syndicate were given in huge laughs saying that this was the best joke ever told. In its turn, the Free Robot’s Federation questioned what was happening: “but, why 42 is not a sensible answer?”
The Elder-Mor made an indescribable expression (even because he was represented by a quantum-relativistic hologram, the most modern at that time, and it was possible to be laughing and crying at the same time…). And, after more 1 minute, facing Deep Thought, him shouted:
— What does 42 mean?!?!?!
Deep Thought gave another sigh, this one longer, and then closed its eyes and pulled its mouth left side, and next said:
—So… this is another calculation…
The End

42 (English Version)
Or, a badly told parody of some part of the Hitchhiker’s Guide to the Galaxy.
Of Comets and Gods in the Making
Asferit, ancient machine-god struggled to return her charges to a semblance of life; cruel fate determined it would not be so.
Asferit had not grown up; she didn’t know where she came from; could not conceive of childhood. No memories of parents, no recollection of family. On the vast empty world that served as her lab, she built the probes and put a little bit of herself in each one.
Her machine-form, ancient, slow and sputtering came to life, wheezing through the long corridors of the silent lab, its darkness masking the distant empty spaces which Asferi imagined were once filled with life.
She looked through her thoughts and realized she had lost any hope of memory, that part of her was already circling a distant star aborning with life. She looked in on those places when she woke to see the results of her work; on so many worlds life spawned.
With the next launch, she would lose the memory of those places, there was so little of her remaining. Enough for three, no four probes. Then she would cease to remember why she was, what she was. She would forget how to exist. But not yet.
She completed the next probe, winding the engine and orienting it along the galactic plane; her sensor array aligning the probe with a wandering comet; she planned to deposit herself within the life-giving molecules within its frozen mass.
She knew little about her past, but knew that she must not be able to be found. This was the only memory that remained; hide from the Darkness.
As she loaded the last probe, she considered the first probe she ever sent, millennia ago; there were monuments within the halls of the lab in her hubris then, she considered them a successful reincarnation of her people.
Each representation was filled with the temporal signature of that once great race; a temporal residue of failure. It spoke of a great race, masters of time and space; they flourished in the dark between the stars. Then the Darkness came. She was overconfident. She slept assured of their success her mission completed.
In the time between sleeping and waking, her cycle of regeneration before attempting to seed again, the great race was gone.
Found. They did not heed the warnings she sent in those early days. She gave far more of herself then. She came to them in visions, taught them secrets to harness the hidden nature of matter; revealed to them the nature of energies, both planetary and interstellar. They would worship her, revere her and believe her to be a god.
In the end, it was not enough. They were consumed, their greatness undone. She sent less and less of herself from then on. Godhood failed them. Perhaps obscurity would serve them better.
She sent less each time, only tiny packages of micromachines capable of changing matter, capable of modifying genomes, empowering the creatures spawned of her with abilities even greater than the First Race. Psychometric representations of them were all that remained, echoes in the timestream of history. In their hubris, they ruptured time and space and like the world her lab hung above, cracked the crust of their world and were lost in a temporal vortex of their own making. They had such potential. Squandered.
Then she began sending only the memory of what she was, embedded within complex epigentic echoes. No longer would she shape the universe for them, they would have to work for their survival, perhaps they would be stronger for it. She appeared to her descendents only in dreams; visions of what they were, memories of who she was, memories she no longer possessed.
Her memory was great once and she seeded thousands of worlds with it. But like the ephemeral nature of memory, so few knew what they saw. Many went mad. Most dreamed of demiurges, mad deva whose powers ravaged worlds. These memories destroyed half of them before they could achieve spaceflight and reach for the stars themselves. Religions they spawned consumed them.
Now, she sent only cells and precellular matter. The very least of herself, the essence of who she was, the final matter of her being; hidden in comets, cloaked in meteor swarms, hidden on the boots of other starfarers.
Time had taught her patience, though she had lost her memories, she was confident of this final strategy. To hide herself on millions of worlds, her final probe-ships would leave a legacy on millions of worlds. She found the last star she would use and loaded the final probe-ship with the hardiest constructions she had ever made. She deconstructed the worldship; her lab, her home for millenia of millenia, breaking down every part of it, reforging it for a final effort.
The planet below was also consumed, her last effort would require everything. It was a long dead world lost to antiquity when the universe was young. Of the Darkness, she could not remember, but she knew this: as long as there was light, her people would survive.
The final instructions to her probeship would have her descending into her planet’s unstable star. It’s final fluctuations revealed what she knew was the inevitable outcome; and she planned to use it to her advantage. Her final self would not be aware of the result. The final cells of her body were distributed within millions of pieces of her world and her lab. Each calibrated to arrive at a star somewhere in her galaxy. Each single cell would find a world ready for life.
She could no longer coerce planets into life. She could no longer force matter or energy to take the shape she deemed. She was now only able to influence the tiniest aspects. Asferit would only be able to nudge a planet toward Life. The Darkness would always be ready to claim her people but now they would be scattered; to worlds within the galaxy and without.
She seeded the galactic wind and waited for a supernova to blow them where it would. Her starseeds hardened against the impending blastwave, they would, with the tiniest bit of her final design, travel faster than light toward their final destinations.
As the star which lit her world, gave her people life, watched them die and patiently waited until they could be reborn, exploded, Asferit now waited in turn.
In those last seconds as the waves of radiation and coronal debris swept over the remnants of her cannibalized world, she subsumed herself within the starseeds and the near-immortal being Asferit, last of her kind, was no more.
And yet now she was pure purpose, no ambitions, no plan, no dreams of godhood, no longer a radiant harbingers of dooms lighting the skies of primitive worlds.
She would be the essence of Life itself; the Darkness be damned.
Of Comets and Gods in the Making © Thaddeus Howze 2013, All Rights Reserved

Thaddeus Howze is a popular and recently awarded Top Writer, 2016 recipient on the Q&A site Quora.com. He is also a moderator and contributor to theScience Fiction and Fantasy Stack Exchange with over fourteen hundred articles in a four year period.
Thaddeus Howze is a California-based technologist and author who has worked with computer technology since the 1980’s doing graphic design, computer science, programming, network administration, teaching computer science and IT leadership.
His non-fiction work has appeared in numerous magazines: Huffington Post, Gizmodo, Black Enterprise, the Good Men Project, Examiner.com, The Enemy, Panel & Frame, Science X, Loud Journal, ComicsBeat.com, and Astronaut.com. He maintains a diverse collection of non-fiction at his blog, A Matter of Scale.
His speculative fiction has appeared online at Medium, Scifiideas.com, and theAu Courant Press Journal. He has appeared in twelve different anthologies in the United States, the United Kingdom and Australia. A list of his published work appears on his website, Hub City Blues.


Of Comets and Gods in the Making
Asferit, ancient machine-god struggled to return her charges to a…
Stories of Ted Chiang’s Life and Others
An interview with the wisest, smartest scifi writer there is
Ted Chiang is the author of Stories of Your Life and Others and Exhalation. I interviewed Ted in 2010 and his words are still vibrant as freshly burnished copper.
Avi: Could you introduce yourself?
Ted: My name is Ted Chiang. I’m a science fiction short story writer.
Asimov’s Foundation Trilogy
Avi: Were there any formative experiences that led you to become a science fiction writer?
Ted: Probably the most formative experience was reading the Foundation Trilogy when I was about twelve years old. That wasn’t the first science fiction I had ever read but it’s something that stands out in my memory as having had a big impact on me. Reading Asimov and then Arthur C. Clarke when I was twelve definitely put me on the road to being a science fiction writer.
‘Tower of Babylon’ by Ted Chiang
Avi: When did you decide to go pro?
Ted: It depends on what you mean by going pro. I started submitting stories for publication when I was about 15, but it was many years before I sold anything. I don’t make my living writing science fiction so in that sense I’m still not a pro. Writing for publication was always my goal, but making a living writing science fiction wasn’t. When I was a kid I figured I would be a physicist when I grew up and then I would write science fiction on the side. The physicist thing didn’t pan out, but writing science fiction on the side did.

Avi: How has being a technical writer affected your fiction writing?
Ted: I can’t recommend technical writing as a day job for fiction writers, because it’s going to be hard to write all day and then come home and write fiction. Nowadays I work as a freelance writer, so I usually do contract technical writing part of the year and then I take time off and do fiction writing the rest of the year. It’s too difficult for me to do technical writing at the same time as fiction writing — they draw on the same parts of my brain. So I can’t say it’s a good day job in that sense, but it’s a way to make money.
‘The Merchant and the Alchemist’s Gate’ by Ted Chiang
Avi: Could you give a walk-through of your writing process?
Ted: In general, if there’s an idea I’m interested in, I usually think about that for a long time and write down my speculations or just ideas about how it could become a story, but I don’t actually start writing the story itself until I know how the story ends. Typically the first part of the story that I write is the very ending, either the last paragraph of the story or a paragraph near the end. Once I have the destination in mind then I can build the rest of the story around that or build the rest of the story in such a way as to lead up to that. Usually the second thing I write is the opening of the story and then I write the rest of the story in almost random order. I just keep writing scenes until I’ve connected the beginning and the end. I write the key scenes or what I think of as the landmark scenes first, and then I just fill in backwards and forwards.
Hai Ebn Yokdhan
Avi: How do you classify your writing? It’s a kind of philosophical fiction, because it’s actually making people think, waking them up and making them wonder about things.
Ted: That’s one of the things that science fiction is particularly good at, that’s one of the reasons I like science fiction. Science fiction is very well suited to asking philosophical questions; questions about the nature of reality, what it means to be human, how do we know the things that we think we know. When philosophers propose thought experiments as a way of analyzing certain questions, their thought experiments often sound a lot like science fiction. I think that there’s a very good fit between the two.
‘Exhalation’ by Ted Chiang
Avi: Religion plays a very important role in your work.
Ted: I do think that religion is a very interesting phenomenon; obviously it affects many people very profoundly. There is a similarity between science and religion in that they’re both attempts to understand the universe, and there was a time in the past when science and religion were not seen as incompatible, when it made perfect sense to be both a scientist and a religious person. Nowadays there is much more of an attitude that the two are incompatible. I think that’s sort of a 20th century phenomenon.
Golem Comic
Avi: You have very specific views on the difference between magic and science. Can you talk about that?
Ted: Sure. Science fiction and fantasy are very closely related genres, and a lot of people say that the genres are so close that there’s actually no meaningful distinction to be made between the two. But I think that there does exist an useful distinction to be made between magic and science. One way to look at it is in terms of whether a given phenomenon can be mass-produced. If you posit some impossibility in a story, like turning lead into gold, I think it makes sense to ask how many people in the world of the story are able to do this. Is it just a few people or is it something available to everybody? If it’s just a handful of special people who can turn lead into gold, that implies different things than a story in which there are giant factories churning out gold from lead, in which gold is so cheap it can be used for fishing weights or radiation shielding. In either case there’s the same basic phenomenon, but these two depictions point to different views of the universe. In a story where only a handful of characters are able to turn lead into gold, there’s the implication that there’s something special about those individuals. The laws of the universe take into account some special property that only certain individuals have. By contrast, if you have a story in which turning lead into gold is an industrial process, something that can be done on a mass scale and can be done cheaply, then you’re implying that the laws of the universe apply equally to everybody; they work the same even for machines in unmanned factories. In one case I’d say the phenomenon is magic, while in the other I’d say it’s science. Another way to think about these two depictions is to ask whether the universe of the story recognizes the existence of persons. I think magic is an indication that the universe recognizes certain people as individuals, as having special properties as an individual, whereas a story in which turning lead into gold is an industrial process is describing a completely impersonal universe. That type of impersonal universe is how science views the universe; it’s how we currently understand our universe to work. The difference between magic and science is at some level a difference between the universe responding to you in a personal way, and the universe being entirely impersonal.
Abraham Abulafia
Avi: One can look upon language as a connecting link between magic and science, so potentially a scientist could be led back to the world of magic by the very fact that he is using language. Maybe if he “overclocks” his language use, that might lead him to some kind of magical experience.
Ted: When you say he has a magical experience, are there effects in the external world?
Avi: No, there might be effects on his body, somatic effects, but not on the external world.
Ted: Ah, okay. It’s probably worth making a distinction between subjective magic and objective magic, or between spiritual magic and practical magic.
Avi: Or between white magic and black magic.
Ted: Right. In practical magic, the goal is to affect the external world. That’s the kind of magic I meant when I was talking about turning lead into gold. In spiritual magic, the only goal is to affect the internal state of the practitioner. It sounds like you’re talking about spiritual magic as opposed than practical magic.
Fred Hoyle: Stellar Nucleosynthesis
Avi: Yes, let me give you an example. So, Fred Hoyle came up with the mechanics of how stars produce heavier elements that end up in us being here. And Apollo 14 astronaut Edgar Mitchell describes an ecstatic experience he had on the way back to the Earth from the Moon. He had a very intense bodily experience of that fact, that the matter in his body was made in an older generation of stars. It was a kind of revelatory experience, and it was based on a piece of scientific knowledge.
Ted: Okay. I don’t think his experience was fundamentally different from the ecstatic experiences that religious people have had for millenia, whether they achieve it through prayer, or meditation or some other type of practice, they achieve an epiphany or some kind of revelation. It sounds like you’re talking about a similar type of experience that scientists might have.

Avi: Yes, he did say that when he got back to Earth, he researched the experience he had, and it matched something called “savikalpa samadhi” in a yogic Sanskrit text, but he didn’t know about that beforehand, and his experience was based on a fact of physics. So can scientific knowledge lead to new kinds of experience, or are they just religious experiences in a different form?
Ted: I don’t think that there’s anything that requires that what the person was thinking about actually be true, for that person to have this experience. The fact that we’re made of elements that were born in the heart of stars, that happens to be true, and that contributed to this astronaut’s experience, but someone could have the exact same experience contemplating something which is not true; for instance, that we are all children of God or whatever, any religious claim you want to use. I don’t think the truth of the statement is actually necessary for that ecstatic experience.
https://www.khanacademy.org/science/biology/photosynthesis/v/photosynthesis
Avi: So it doesn’t have any impact on the validity of the experience?
Ted: I’m not convinced that it does. For example, I recently heard this ethnobotanist, Dennis McKenna, on the radio, talking about his experience taking a powerful hallucinogen. He could see photosynthesis actually happening; he could see water molecules actually being processed in the chloroplasts of plant cells. He also felt this incredible sense of oneness, a feeling that humanity was part of this planetary organism. I’m sure this was a very profound experience for him, but I don’t take it as evidence of the truth of photosynthesis. He himself admitted that he already knew how photosynthesis works, and I think the fact that he knew this contributed to his hallucinatory experience. Other people who don’t know about photosynthesis have different hallucinatory experiences, and most of these experiences do not reflect scientific truth. People will have incompatible experiences, and they can’t all be true. So I don’t think that this powerful ecstatic or hallucinatory experience is an indicator of truth. I think it can accompany an accurate insight about the world, but it doesn’t have to. It can accompany someone thinking about the nucleosynthesis of heavy elements in stars, but it could also accompany someone thinking about the need to excoriate one’s flesh to make the Lord happy.
“Understand” is what “Limitless” should have been
Avi: Your story Understand relates to this. It came before the fad of going to Peru and taking Ayahuasca, but it’s about a similar experience, making all these connections, perceiving things in a more intense way.
Ted: Yes, I suppose it is. I remember when some friends of mine read Understand, they were certain that I must have taken hallucinogens at some point, but I have not. I wasn’t attempting to describe someone hallucinating, but I was attempting to describe the experience of having a revelation, an incredibly deep and profound revelation about the nature of the universe. I guess it so happens that most people’s experience of that occurs when they’re taking hallucinogens, but the hallucinogen aspect was not my intent.

Avi: Rick Strassman’s book The Spirit Molecule, about the psychedelic drug DMT and the effects it’s had on people, connects with Understand. I feel like many things connect with your story, in retrospect!
Ted: I think that’s one of the things that happens when you are thinking about a given idea a lot; you start seeing resonances to that idea everywhere, in the things that you read, the things that you see.
http://www.npr.org/2013/04/21/177757600/boston-bombs-and-lessons-from-israel
Avi: I read Hell is the Absence of God while living in Jerusalem at the height of the suicide bombing campaign, so that was my association: the angel as a suicide bomber.
Ted: That’s an interesting association; I hadn’t really thought about that, but I can see the resemblance.
Avi: The story resonated for me because it explores the issues that many of us were forced to grapple with at that time, because we knew we could die any day. That’s always true, but it’s more obvious when there are bombs going off.
Ted: It really makes you conscious of the fact that you could die at any moment. It probably makes you think, have you made your peace?
Avi: And how fast can you make your peace!
Ted: Which is one of the arguments that religious people make: you don’t know how long you have, so you’d better make your peace now because you might die at any time. That is an argument that some characters in the story Hell is the Absence of God make, citing it as one of the reasons God orders these angelic visitations: it’s a way to remind people that they don’t have much time, or that they don’t know how much time they have.
Avi: One of the characters in your story makes his peace regardless of the fact that God has created upheavals in his life; he makes a moral choice that’s not dependent upon God’s actions.
Ted: I think it’s a hard thing to achieve. You can describe a character achieving it, but I can’t say that I have achieved that myself. Accepting all the terrible things that happen in the world, making your peace with that, trying to make sense of that is one of the fundamental problems of religion.
Abulafia’s Circles
Avi: In your story Seventy-Two Letters you draw parallels between Jewish Kabbalah, computer programming and bio-informatics. Do you see any similarities between these, given that they are all reliant on manipulating a base code? What are the differences in your view?
Ted: Well, I think one can draw metaphorical connections between them for a science-fiction story, but I don’t think they have a lot to do with each other in reality. Computer programming is a rational practice while Kabbalah is a mystical practice, and DNA is different from computer code, and I wouldn’t want anyone confusing one with another. At a metaphorical level, they all provide ways of thinking about the relationship between language and reality, which is a topic I find interesting. There’s this old idea in magic that there’s a language where the symbols have a tight relationship with what’s being signified, so by manipulating those symbols, you could manipulate reality itself. That’s a form of practical magic, according to the distinction we talked about earlier. And that certainly bears a resemblance to computer programming, where code is translated into actions by a computer. And in turn that bears a resemblance to DNA, where code is translated into the bodies of living organisms. So I think it’s fun to imagine a connection between all three of these, so long as we’re talking about fiction. I wouldn’t want anyone to take this too literally.
‘What’s Expected of Us’ by Ted Chiang
Avi: Many of your stories, of which ‘Story of your Life’ is an spectacular exemplar, play with the implications of knowing the future. What fascinates you about the nature of Time?
Ted: The question of free will. I think free will is what underlies most everything interesting about time travel. And when I say time travel, I’m including receiving information from the future, because that’s essentially equivalent to someone traveling from the future. The idea that you can create a paradox assumes that you have free will; even the idea of multiple timelines assumes it, because it assumes that you can make choices. There have always been philosophical arguments about whether we have free will or not, but they’re usually kind of abstract. Time travel, or knowing the future, makes the question very concrete. If you know what’s going to happen, can you keep it from happening? Even when a story says that you can’t, the emotional impact arises from the feeling that you should be able to.
‘Story of your Life’ by Ted Chiang
Avi: You have a large fan base in Japan. How do you account for it?

Ted: I can’t; I was completely surprised when I found out. It did prompt me to think about what might make some works more suitable for translation than others. I’m sure there are stories that are very rooted in aspects of a particular culture, which require familiarity with that culture to fully appreciate, and those stories probably don’t translate well. To the extent that my work is philosophical fiction, it’s not enormously reliant on American culture, and that might make it a good candidate for translation. That could explain why my work got translated into Japanese, although it wouldn’t explain why it’s more popular there than here. I gather that Greg Egan is considered a god of science fiction in Japan, while most of his work is out of print in the United States; some people compare my work to his, which I consider a great compliment, and which would support the idea that Japanese science-fiction readers have very different tastes than American ones.
‘The Lifecycle of Software Objects’ by Ted Chiang
Avi: What prompted you to write your novella The Lifecycle of Software Objects?
Ted: It’s primarily a response to how Artificial Intelligence has been depicted in most science fiction. The typical science-fiction depiction of AI is this loyal, obedient butler; you simply flip a switch, turn it on and it’s ready to do your bidding. I feel like there’s a huge story being glossed over, having to do with the creation of that AI. I don’t mean the technical details of developing software that’s as smart as a human brain; most science fiction posits a miraculous technological development, and there’s no need to explain it. It’s just that with AI, I feel like there’s a second miracle assumed, which is that someone was able to take this software as smart as a human brain and make it as useful as a butler. Current computers are still light-years away from being as capable as the brain of a newborn baby, but even after you’ve reached that point, you’re still only halfway to having a useful butler. For example, in Arthur C. Clarke’s 2010, supposedly the first thing that HAL 9000 said when he was activated is “Good morning Dr. Chandra, I’m ready for my first lesson”. That is not something a newborn baby says. There is implicitly a lifetime of experience underlying that simple statement. Where did that experience come from? If it could be programmed in, HAL wouldn’t need to have any lessons at all. How did he learn to speak English? How does he know what it means to be ready for a lesson? It takes years to turn a human being into a useful employee. In fact, the more useful you want the employee to be, the longer it takes to get there. You might not have to repeat the process for each and every AI you want to use; once you’ve got one trained, it’s possible that you could just make copies of it. But someone still needs to do it for the first one, and that’s going to be difficult, and really time-consuming. Most depictions of AI assume that this step is unnecessary, or that it will be easy, which I think assumes an entirely separate miracle from the technical one.

Avi: How optimistic are you about the practical realization of these two miracles of AI?
Ted: In practical terms, I’m pretty skeptical about AI. I don’t think it’s impossible, but I think it’s so difficult that I’m not sure why anyone would bother. Right now Google is enormously useful, but it’s not remotely conscious, and it’s not moving in that direction. If anyone tried describing a computer as useful as Google in a science-fiction story fifty years ago, they probably depicted it as having consciousness of some sort. But it turns out that a computer doesn’t need to be conscious to be useful; ordinary software serves our purposes just fine. I expect that will remain true; we will have software of ever increasing usefulness without it ever “waking up”. On the other hand, there is one form of rudimentary AI software that has turned out to be surprisingly popular, and that’s virtual pets. The Sims was the best-selling PC game of all time, and who would have predicted that? It turns out that having a kind of emotional relationship with software can be very appealing to people. So I tend to think that the most likely reason for us to develop conscious software would be because it’s fun, rather than because it’s useful. It will all depend on whether software that’s actually conscious is more fun than software that simply mimics conscious organisms, like The Sims. If it is, then that might actually motivate people to put in the time needed to train an AI to be useful.

Avi: The AIs in your story have virtual bodies. How important is having a body for consciousness to come into being? Is there a difference between having a “real” physical body and a virtual body?
Ted: A lot of researchers believe that AI needs to be embodied and situated, meaning that it has to have some kind of physical body and exist within some kind of physical environment. The general idea is that we learn by doing; our understanding of the world comes from moving our body around, pushing solid objects against each other. I suppose it’s possible that there are modes of cognition that could exist without these things, but I think they’d be so foreign to us as to be incomprehensible. A virtual body and a virtual environment ought to work just as well as physical ones, assuming the simulation is detailed enough. However, a program like The Sims isn’t actually simulating physical bodies to any significant degree. There are other video games, like first-person shooters, that do some physics simulation when it comes to destructible environments, but they don’t actually do a detailed physics simulation for the character avatars. That’s why their feet often pass through objects they’re walking over. You’d have to design a far more detailed physics simulation to provide a sense of embodiment for an AI, but it should certainly be possible.

Avi: The sense of touch is essential for the emotional health of kids. Could you elaborate on the role of touch in the world of the AIs in your story?
Ted: The AIs enjoy being touched, but that’s a deliberate decision on the part of their designers; it’s a way to make them appealing to their owners. There are some autistic children who don’t like being touched, and that’s hard for their parents, because parents like hugging their kids. And given the choice between a pet that enjoys being touched and one that doesn’t, most people would choose one that enjoys it. Touch is important to people, so if you want to encourage an emotional bond between humans and AIs, if you want people to want to spend time with them, you should make touch important to AIs too.
http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=eYG0ZuTv5rs
Avi: In A Primate’s Memoir Robert Sapolsky details his highly emotional connections with the troop of African baboons he studied. Did you read any primatological works while preparing your novella?
Ted: I didn’t read about primates in the wild, but I did read about the chimpanzees who’d been taught sign language. They were famous for a while, but you don’t usually hear about what happened to them after the language studies were over. Some were sent to medical labs for experimental use. The case I was most interested in was a chimpanzee named Lucy; the humans who’d been teaching her couldn’t find a chimp sanctuary that would take her, so they decided to send her to Africa, even though she’d lived her entire life among humans and never seen the jungle before. A grad student named Janis Carter went with her to help her adjust to life in the wild. Janis Carter was supposed to stay there just a few weeks, but pretty quickly she realized that that wasn’t going to be enough. She spent years teaching Lucy how to live outdoors and forage for food. Ultimately Lucy died because she wasn’t able to adapt to the wild, but I was really struck by Janis Carter’s commitment; here was someone who didn’t even like camping, and she changed her entire life in order to help Lucy. How many people would be willing to do that for someone who isn’t a human being?
Qumran Copper Scroll
Avi: Finally, are you planning on printing Exhalation on copper sheets?
Ted: Ha! I suppose it could be done. That would be a very cool art object or an interesting limited edition. I don’t think I’m famous enough to warrant such an expensive endeavor, but I would be thrilled if someone did it.
Avi: Thank you
Ted: You’re welcome.

Stories of Ted Chiang’s Life and Others
An interview with the wisest, smartest scifi writer there is
The Last Quarter
Raymond Chandler + Super Powers = Novel in Progress…
One
My car was two blocks away from Art’s, a downtown bar frequented by law school kids, minor league ball players, and well-dressed lobbyists. It was late January, and the few people in the bar laughed their drunken laughs, still optimistic that this year would be better than the last. Earlier that day I got a tip that somebody had seen a guy at Art’s the night before, a particular guy stepping out on a particular woman who had hired a particular me to ascertain his whereabouts. I flashed a picture of the guy to a few barflies but their minds had an elsewhere to be. Useless. The old grizzly behind the bar didn’t know anything apart from how not to pour a beer, which left me with half a pint of foam and a bum lead. Terrible bartenders seemed a unique charm of downtown Lansing, but the clientele didn’t seem to mind. Maybe they didn’t know any better. I tipped the grizzly and left without finishing the beer.
The guy hadn’t been here. Anna Riel would have to wait another day or two before I found her husband and sent him slinking back home for some fresh hell. A small matter, but she was willing to pay some money to have his business known, a modest investment on a post-marital payday. He wasn’t there, and hadn’t been it seemed, so nothing doing. It was late, I was tired, and the place made my head ache.
I opened the door to leave the bar and winter immediately reminded me that forgetting my scarf at home was maybe a mistake. I turned up the collar of my coat. Little good it did. The wind wailed and whipped and borne on its lunatic frenzy tiny barbs of snow and ice tried to bite my exposed skin with a naked hunger, flapped my collar violently like it was keeping time for an up-tempo fugue. It was dark, well after midnight, and the density of snow shrouded my view of the city. Street lights glowed timidly along the length of Allegan Avenue, and I could just make out the dome of the capitol, some eighty yards west, wreathed with an orange hue.
The wind picked up, howled down the concrete corridor, whistled a harsh tune in my ears. I turned my back to it and felt it push me forward, as if urging me to go home and get that scarf. The snow sped through frozen beams of streetlight, disappeared, bled into the indistinct expanse of gray white covering the city. This was the third day of snow. The wet heavy stuff that hitches a ride on your coat and hat and leaves you soaking once you return to the comforts of civilization. You can’t do anything about it except repeat the process in the inevitable later. An armada of snow plows patrolled the streets at regular intervals, and one trundled along as I walked through the snow to my car. City workers shoveled the walks after lunch, but the endless snow undid their efforts by mid-afternoon. They hadn’t been out since, and I didn’t blame them.
Across the street something moved suddenly. I looked and saw only shadows. Art’s was a block behind and my car a block ahead with nothing but the night in between. Anyone with sense was already home. The rest of us were at the bar looking for a connection. I looked ahead and could see my car in the little lot I parked it in. Twenty minutes and covered in snow. The wind shrieked, picking up, and I saw something again in my periphery. I turned slightly to look across the street. A dark figure stood just out of reach of the cold glow cast by the streetlights. I slowed a little and kept watching, pretending to fuss with something in my pocket. The figure seemed to stoop, his back turned, draped in a coat too big and long to fit properly. A hood covered his head, and when he turned slightly it hid his face. A siren wailed somewhere to the south. The figure jumped and turned. I blinked and he was gone. Something had just moved fast enough to agitate lots of air, against the wind, and the snow danced violently as it shred fatal aeronautic loops. I stopped and stared at the spot where the figure had just stood.
The siren continued, diminished across the river. I stood a moment longer, watched the spot, looked up and down Allegan. The wind slackened. I sneezed, and then started for my car. An old white Honda coupe, all straight lines and hard angles, it looked like a panhandler begging for nickels among the wealth of new models surrounding it.
I got there in a minute, unlocked it, and grabbed my snowbrush from the back seat. The snow came off easy, in big clumps. Tossing the brush back again I got in and lit a cigarette. I cracked the window and dragged the cigarette for some inspiration. Snowflakes floated in through the thin slit at the top, and I blew out some smoke in exchange. The spot down the street where the figure had stood was still empty. I put the cigarette back on my lips and left it there. The cold was starting to get to me. It had to be about ten degrees, colder with the wind. I sat there in my little coupe and watched for the figure while my soaked coat froze.
It could have been nobody with nothing going on. But moving that quickly, at the sound of sirens no less, suggested otherwise to me. No legitimate operator moved that fast without a license, and I didn’t think he had one of those. That made him interesting, and maybe a little dangerous.
I crushed the ember of the cigarette between my fingers and flicked the butt into the ashtray and rubbed the ash from my hand. Ten minutes and the guy hadn’t returned. I looked down to pull another cigarette from the pack, and heard a muffled explosion like a car engine protesting from beyond the junkyard. Then another. Gunshots. I looked down Allegan and the figure stood where he had before. I jumped out of my car as the figure moved. I didn’t blink this time and before I could even think a dark streak blurred around the next street corner, as clear and defined as a lost weekend. Gone. The air around me seemed to shrink, contract, then a clap of thunder sounded from around the corner, echoing off the few high buildings and chasing the speedster as he shot off. It wouldn’t catch him. Guys like that never get caught.
Air came rushing back into place and snow blew everywhere in a frenetic fury. Glass shattered and a car alarm cried foul and I took my second leaping step from the car. I ran lopingly back down Allegan and across the street to where the speedster had been. Something about the building he was standing in front of was odd, something just out of the light, a shapeless mass of some dark something stuck against it that wasn’t there before. Within ten feet I could make it out.
It was my guy. Or rather, his corpse. Half of it to be specific. I stopped and looked away at nothing. My stomach turned and I coughed and gagged. I turned back to look at him, and fished a pen light out my coat’s breast pocket. Flicking it on I steeled myself and got closer. His head jutted out of the building’s concrete, merging with it just behind his ears. Half open eyes hid their vacancy until my light caught them, brown nothings already clouding over from exposure. The fingers of the left hand protruded graspingly from the building, as if trying to find some purchase on life. A knee here, the toe of a shoe there. The most of his torso occupied a similar position between the wintry mix and cold solidity. He wore a white pressed shirt and from the center of his chest radiated two crimson blooms. Frank Riel was most assuredly dead, frozen in a grim state between states, caught in a dead run. Mrs. Riel had failed to mention that her husband could walk through walls. Maybe she didn’t know, but that would change soon enough. I laughed a little at the joke of it.
I turned the light off and kicked around the snow beneath the body. No gun, but I didn’t really expect that. Down the road at Art’s a few patrons had wandered outside, curious about the noise, and hung boozily from one another. One of them walked around the corner onto Capitol and the car alarm stopped. Their voices filtered through the snow with that odd winter crispness. Somebody mentioned the police, and they fell back inside the bar. I would call the cops too, but not just yet. Riel was my case. More than I had anticipated sure, but still my case cops or no. I looked up and down Allegan, saw no cars or people, then walked to the corner of Allegan and Washington. A narrow path plowed by the speedster through the snow ran along a length of sidewalk before veering off into the road some twenty yards from where I stood. Washington was still too, apart from the intermittent flicker of a street light. I turned to head back to Riel and a car pulled around the corner from the opposite direction, coming from the capitol. Something in the bank of the little path caught the light off the car’s beams, flashing brilliantly. The car passed me and I stooped to pick up a single key ringed on a blue plastic fob. The key was cold and seemed new, fresh cut. I stepped into some pallid light and turned over the fob, a squishy circle. On the back in small white lettering the number 31 was printed. I put it in my right coat pocket and traded it for my cell. The car, a dark blue Toyota sedan, swerved drunkenly through the middle of Washington. It didn’t have any plates.
Trotting back around the corner I called the precinct situated a few blocks down on Michigan. I put the phone to my ear. It rang twice.
“This is Fellowes.”
“Heya Teddy.”
“Benson? You know I hate it when you call me.”
“Yet I do it anyway. What can I say, I’m a sadist.”
Ted coughed, then cleared his throat. “Alright, what is it.”
I stood in front of Riel, pulled out a folded four by six glossy and fished for my penlight. “I’ve found something you might be interested in Teddy.” The wind caught the photo, almost ripping it out of my hand. I held it tightly, unfolding it a little and shining the light on it. No mistaking, this was my guy. “A phaser. A dead one. Not too far from you. Corner of Allegan and Washington.”
A second or two passed. Ted said softly: “Jesus. What did you do this time, man? Jesus.” Another pause, then: “Do you know him?”
“You mean did I ever see him at any of the meetings? Nah. I’m working a case. He’s involved, or was. Name’s Frank Riel. How did you guys not hear anything? Sampling the evidence again?”
“Shut up and hang on a sec.”
I shone the light in Riel’s face. His eyes had taken on the cold deadness of fish eyes, glossed milk and frozen. The temperature was dropping.
“OK,” Ted came back. “Riel never had a license with us, never applied for one or submitted for training.”
“I could have told you that.”
Ted ignored me. “I’ve gotta type something up real quick and I’ll be right over. Don’t move, Benson.”
“I anxiously await your arrival, Theodore.”
“Ass.”
The call ended. My phone informed me that it was currently 1:29 in the AM before dimming to a restless sleep. Back in the pocket. I turned my back to the wind, planted my feet beneath my shoulders and shifted the light to study the photo. The wind was beginning to die, but the increasing cold happily took its place as my tormentor. My hat was pointless, my coat as useful as a prayer shawl. The photo provided a favorable contrast to my present condition. It showed Riel in a dog park full of green and sun and cloudless sky. He was down on one knee, smiling, his arm around the mottled black and white frame of a nameless border collie. The collie’s tongue lolled, mirrored by Riel’s own smiling face. He was about thirty-six, thin with dark eyes and hair, sunburnt and handsome in a conventional sense. You could have mistaken him for any number of unremarkables at the park on that or any other day. Nothing about the photo suggested this man was born with the ability to shift his body through solid objects. I folded the photo and put it away and took out my pack of smokes, lit one and placed it in the corner of my mouth. I inhaled and my lungs filled with the soothing warmth of cancer.
A couple of streets over a siren bleated twice and went silent. In a few moments I saw flashing red and blue cast against the buildings and a pair of squad cars rounded the corner. The door to Art’s opened and light flooded out defying the night. Onlookers cast their shadows onto the snow, twisting and jostling for position. One of the squad cars bleated again, just once, and both pulled to the curb in front of me. The lights stayed on, bathing everything in oscillating color, making me a little dizzy. A few people exited the bar and were standing in front of the door. Detective Ted Fellowes got out of the driver seat of the first car, a stout man who carried himself like a mastiff but looked the sweetheart. He wrapped his gray wool coat around himself and began to button it, gloved hands moving deftly. Blue eyes moved from me to just past, widened, then looked away.
“Jesus,” he said. Two uniformed officers in marshmallow coats got out of the second car and assembled behind him.
“That’s three times already, Ted. The cock hasn’t even dreamt of crowing.” I took a long drag from my cigarette.
“Gimme one of those.”
I exhaled out the side of my mouth. “What, you guys take a pay cut?”
“No,” Ted said, looking somewhat chastised. “I quit. Jess won’t allow it in the house or around the kids.”
“You’re just full of sin tonight,” I said handing him the pack. He pulled out two sticks, put one in his left pocket and the other in his mouth. I gave him the lighter.
Ted cupped his hand around the lighter as he lit the cigarette, a warm glow illuminating his child-like features. He was in his late thirties but looked fresh out of the academy. The lighter extinguished returning his face to relative darkness. A red cherry hung, suspended like a mad firefly in front of Ted’s nose. Its glow brightened, weakened. He put his hand to his mouth and the cherry descended to his side. “Thanks, Jon,” he said, sighing a little. “Now tell me you didn’t do this.”
One of the uniforms turned and began gagging noisily.
“I didn’t do this.”
Ted looked at the officer having a bad time, then said: “C’mon, Anderson. This isn’t the worst you’ve seen.” Anderson puffed his cheeks out and closed his eyes. “Anderson,” Ted said roughly. “Anderson! If you can’t handle it, go take care of them.” He pointed down the street towards Art’s where a handful of patrons had begun wandering closer to the scene.
The other officer put his hand on Anderson’s shoulder, and Anderson grabbed his arm. He gagged once more and stood up slowly, supporting himself with his partner’s help. Newly stoic he began walking toward our audience, back straight and eyes forward.
Ted said: “Miller, grab your light,” and the other officer pulled a giant Maglite from his hip. Blinding white poured from it, searing the night and casting Riel in stark relief. I squinted and had to look away. Ted inhaled, coughed loudly. “Alright, so tell me a story,” he said chokingly.
“This guy, Frank Riel, his wife hired me to find out where he was spending all his free time. She thought he was seeing a mistress. I got a tip from one of his coworkers that he liked to frequent Art’s, only they’ve never seen him there.”
“Please tell me you didn’t go through his pockets or anything, for ID?
I gestured at Riel. Any pockets he had were submerged in several inches of hard concrete. “I’m not that clever, Teddy.” I handed him the photo. He studied it for a moment, looked at the corpse, then handed it back.
“Where’s he work?”
“GM. Labor negotiator for corporate or some such. Handy fellow to have on the payroll, skill like his.”
“Uh-huh.” Ted took out a pencil and a little spiral flip pad and began scratching some notes. “And this coworker seemed alright, legitimate?”
“Yeah. I contacted her through GM’s local HR office. All the proper avenues. No reason to think I was being fed a line.”
“I’ll need his name.”
“Her name, and it’s Natalie Vaughn.” Ted scribbled it out and looked at me with prompting eyes. “So I leave Art’s, head for my car, and spy somebody watching this spot.” I pointed to where Riel and the building were getting intimate. “There’s a siren off somewhere, he spooks, then disappears.”
Ted looked up from his notes. “Like, disappeared disappeared? Went invisible? Because that’s just what I need.”
I shook my head. “I don’t think so. When he vanished he left a wake in the air. I get to my car, wait around, then he comes back, this same spot. Next second, I hear two gun shots, and the guy runs down Washington so fast he looks like pulled taffy.”
“You mean he’s a speedster?” Ted nearly spat out his cigarette. “But there’s only supposed to be, what, five registered in the whole Great Lakes region! You think he shot Riel?”
“C’mon Teddy, you’re better than that.” Ted looked annoyed. I grinned a little and my teeth chattered. I took out another cigarette and pressed it end to end with the dying one. I crushed the fading butt in my ungloved hand and let it fall to the ground. “Frank here could phase through walls. You think a bullet could catch him while he’s making his way through solid concrete? Nah. He was shot inside this building somewhere and died coming out. Our speedster was here to watch, or maybe wait for him. I don’t know why. I don’t even know what this building is.” I tilted back and looked up the couple dozen stories above my head.
Miller shifted the Mag to his other hand and sent the shadows dancing.
Ted scratched his ear with the pencil. “Offices for rent, I think. Various businesses and corporate outfits.” He looked worried, or maybe confused. It was hard to tell. His eyes drifted back to Riel. “I need to call a forensics team in, asap.”
“Or a demolitions team, at least. Seriously Ted, this is some next level stuff. You don’t read about this sort of thing in the papers too often.”
“No, just on the internet. And not in America.” Ted sniffed contemptuously. Down the street Anderson was shepherding a stumbling flock of last-callers toward Art’s. “You see anybody come out or run off?”
“Nothing, just the speedster.” My right hand found the key and fob in my pocket and fiddled with it for a second. “But he was gone before I got out of the parking lot.” I motioned around the corner toward Washington. “You can see the trail he left yourself. Did you hear the thunder? The sonic boom? You had to have heard that at least.”
Ted glanced down Allegan toward Anderson and Art’s. “We heard something. We didn’t know what it was. Night like tonight, it’s better to just wait for the calls.” He looked back at me reproachfully.
“Just another service I provide.”
Ted eyed Riel’s corpse for a moment, then wheeled around to face Miller. His hand jerked to his face, shielding his eyes from the officer’s flashlight. “Jeeeezus! Put that thing away, Miller! This isn’t a damn stage production!”
Miller hit the button and everything went blue and red again.
“I need to make a few calls,” Ted growled. “Stay here, both of you.” He walked around his squad car and got in. Miller shifted his feet around. He had dull eyes and a doughy face.
“So, uh, you a private?”
“Jonathon Benson. I do some stuff, here and there. I get around. Sometimes I get paid.”
“Uh-huh.” His voice waivered a bit, uncertain or nervous. “Fellowes said something made me think that-”
“That I got powers? That I’m special?” I said edgily.
Miller’s hands shot up in front of him, palms out. “Woah! No offense, man! Just curious, just making small talk.”
It always started this way. People find out you’re endowed with some superhuman something or other and proceed to treat you like a rabid animal, all deference and fear. Ever since the thing. It’s been like that ever since.
I cleared my throat. “Sorry, officer. I’m a sensitive guy. I only use my abilities for good, when I use them at all. I’m not in possession of that particular license.” I gave a salute that only hinted of mockery.
We stood in silence. Down the road Anderson stood in front Art’s open door, arms spread wide and mouth flapping like a flat tire. I began to shiver, hugged myself close, and drew heavily from my cigarette. After some time Ted got out of his car and returned to where we stood. I spat the rest of my cigarette into my left hand and made a fist.
“Why do you do that?” Miller said.
“Because sometimes it hurts.”
Ted looked at me sternly. “Alright. Get outta here, Benson. We’ve got it from here.”
“Just like that, huh?”
“Yeah, just like that. Thanks. See ya, bye-bye.” He waved me away with a condescending hand.
I snorted. “Alright. You’re welcome, Theodore.” I started walking across the street at a diagonal, heading for the parking lot.
Ted called after me: “And you know the drill. Don’t skip town, don’t call us, we’ll call you, keep your nose clean, et cetera, et cetera.”
“Go to hell, Teddy,” I shouted back.
“And stay out of our way, Benson. Don’t interfere with this investigation or you’ll get worse than the usual. I wasn’t kidding, either. Expect to hear from us.”
I wouldn’t interfere with their investigation, but I wouldn’t leave it alone either. It was my investigation too, and I didn’t trust them to handle it competently. Frank Riel was in to something, and I owed his wife to find out. I got back to my car and turned the ignition a dozen times before it started. I sat for a while and watched as two more squad cars joined the party, then an unmarked vehicle with government plates drove by the little parking lot toward the flashing lights. It parked across the street from the squad cars and a tall man in a long dark coat and sweat pants got out and ran across the street. I didn’t recognize him.
I began shivering again. I stretched my shoulders back causing my frozen coat to crunch and become pliable and vainly turned the heater dials and pressed the button for the blower, knowing nothing would happen. The whole thing crapped out back in November. I considered lighting another cigarette, but my lungs already burned and my brain was buzzing from nicotine. I wanted to get at least a few hours of sleep that night. A long day was coming tomorrow. I pulled some tatty gloves from the back seat and put them on and flipped the radio to NPR. Somebody on the Beeb told me India and Pakistan would enter in to a tenth and final cricket match on Saturday. I pulled out of the lot onto Allegan and drove away from the scene, across the river then north towards my apartment in Old Town, listening to foreign people talk about foreign sports.

The Last Quarter
Raymond Chandler + Super Powers = Novel in Progress…
Of Old Men and Bad Dreams
An aged mystic discovers the boundaries between life and death, at least for dragons, can be quite permeable… (Part 1 of 4)
Ivan Laliashvili

The three mystics returned to the scene of their world’s last great battle.
The fourth trailed behind and sat when they reached their destination. Even years later the stink of smoke and decayed dragon flesh permeated everything around its remains. The ground stayed black and mushy with mold and shrunken mushrooms.
The pilgrimage was part of their holy rites but for these three, it was a return to the scene of a crime. They had been here once, when they were young, bold and magically powerful. They were part of the armed resistance against the city of Babeleon and its dragon army.
The ruins of Babeleon, with its broken spires, even all these years later seemed to loom menacing, daring any to try and garner its deadly secrets. Few tried. Fewer returned. All were driven mad.
Miles away, the last of the great dragons, Melioach lay dead, brought down by these very mages in their youth, decades ago. Then they were filled with the hubris of their success. Time relieved them of those illusions as they left the scene of this, the last battle for the freedom of Men and discovered, while they may have won the battle, the war destroyed the world.
The bones of the dragon, Melioach sat undisturbed except for the scaffolding where traveling mages, sages, and apothecaries harvested vital flesh, essence and humors from the creature after its death.
But this was dangerous work, no matter how potentially powerful the cures, poultices, salves, and ungents that could be made from the magic-infused flesh of the beasts. That same flesh was filled with ichor, poisons, venoms which could strip the flesh from someone unskilled in the proper handling of the creature’s putrefying form.
Even in death, there is no victory against dragons for their dying flesh poisoned the very land they lay on for decades.
But these three had not come back to this scene for the mere physical scraps, rich in magical energy. They had come back for the most dangerous of dragon essence, the soul of the black beast.
With their illusions of youth shattered, the fall of Babeleon was the fall of their world. The last city was the only hope against a world overrun with wild magic, created by these same mad mages. Now, they sought a means to leave the overcast world complete with an everpresent smog, which smothered the soul and crushed the spirits of the survivors.
Within the soul of Melioach, the greatest of the Black Dragons lay the means of escape. With it, they hoped to open a doorway to another world; the same way the creature had come to their world, they believed it was possible to leave this destroyed realm for someplace, anyplace better.
But dying from improper handling of the humors of dragons was the least of their worries.
For if they mishandled the spirit of a dragon, it would consume their very souls; for while the body of a dragon can be slain, its soul lives on, waiting and calling out to other dragons for retribution to carry their revenge to their killers. Some, those who were powerful enough even had a chance at stealing the body of another, weaker spiritually than they were, murdering the will of the lesser dragon for another chance at life.
And revenge; dragons were very good at getting revenge, even after death.
The three mages drew in the mud around the wreckage of Melioach. A triangle of Order, designed to bind and hold the spirit for harvest. The dragon’s body was over one hundred feet long, but many of the smaller bones, particularly the wings had been harvested, because they were lighter and could be shaped into nearly unbreakable weapons.
The larger bones of the spine and the nearly impenetrable bones of the skull remained completely intact, unable to be destroyed by anything less than the ancient munitions science of Babeleon.
Feh. The last mage was an unwilling participant in this mission and had been forced to go. They had walked nearly three thousand miles and seen the horrors of the Last Great War in person. As holy men, they were given the best any of the villages and towns had to offer in exchange for healing, learning, binding, surgery, or any of the many skills they had scavenged over the decades from Babeleon and her many slave cities of which seven were the next greatest in the world.
There were none like them now.
Men were little more than beasts themselves. Living in forests dying from radiation, fishing in rivers made red with toxins from the dark factories, there was no future here.
Hence this mad plan. The three mages had completed their preparations surrounding the dragon with the tools of their mystic arts. Despite the mad science of Babeleon, the mystics of the Triune Order did possess incredible abilities of the mind and body. Trained in direct opposition to the sybaritic tendencies of the people of Babeleon, the Triune Order led the war against the madness and in the end, the Order was destroyed as well.
Rebuilding had not gone well, though the people were grateful for the help, and appreciated the Order’s visitations, they were just as happy when the mystics moved on. They wanted nothing to do with either side of a war that destroyed the world.
Melioach woke.
This was different than the prickling of his dead flesh. Scavengers feeding from his carcass, he knew this was a possibility when he failed. That he would know the indignity of lessers feasting on his ruin.
But he was Melioach, this was not his first body. He had worn the flesh of many. He knew his spirit had no equals and that eventually others would come and he would be free.
But the days turned into weeks and no one came. Unusual, but not unexpected. He was patient. He waited three hundred years on Uliax before others found the world and released him. This would be a few more weeks at most, since dragons had long since populated this world.
He passed the time driving those who would partake of his flesh for its magic into madness. Invading their dreams, he would mine their psyches for weaknesses, paranoias and then turn them against each other. He watched as pilgrims would slay each other and then themselves.
Even in death, he was mighty. He was Melioach and he would defeat death and escape.
But no one came. No dragons crested the horizon. No cries in the distance, for a dragon’s scream could be heard for leagues. Then he thought back to the battle and realized he had been abandoned.
His wingmates peeled away at a crucial juncture leaving him vulnerable to three Triune Mystics. It was apparent this wasn’t just a rout this was planned. They left him to die.
A dragon has perfect memory bound into their very soul, allowing them to transcend their flesh without a loss of identity.
Melioach looked back at the battle and realized why he hadn’t seen another dragon. There were none. They had left him behind when the battle became untenable. He could sense their resentment, replaying the situation in his mind, he realized it had been long in the planning and he had been too blind, caught up with his human allies who had promised him this world and easy access to many others.
Armed with this knowledge, Melioach waited. A dragon who had not known his wingmates, his brood, would come through the Void Between Worlds and he would take their body.
And he would find his brood and make them pay. How they would suffer made the years pass pleasantly, a visualization to pass away the decades undisturbed, until now.
Until he felt something pricking at his soul trying to remove it from his body. Something human, something mortal. Someone who needed killing. He woke fully and was for a moment trapped.
The fourth mystic watched and entreated one more time. “Brothers, before you enbark on this madness, I beg you. We can do this without the essence of our world’s greatest evil.”
The first mystic, a proud man whose scared visage of a once handsome face, spoke of his loss, spoke his piece. “You were not wanted here. We did not need you for the ritual. You are here only as a recorder of this event, of this our last, best triumph over evil. Remember your place and be silent.”
The second mystic, a man of humble mien, whose hunched back was still strong despite his disfigurement from the venom of a dragon added, “Be at peace, brother, I can already see the bindings taking hold of the beast. With his soul in tow, we shall hie to Barandar and Banarabas and open the gate to a nearby world. It will not take more than a month before we will complete the harvest. Watch out for us while we bind the dragon Melioach. Ignore our older brother, I chose you for your temperance.”
The third, not know for speech, nodded and smiled. His was an incomparable will and spirit, and while speech was lost to him, his spiritual fortitude had no equals. His psychic powers were the greatest the Order had ever known. He sat down and entered the trance and the fourth sat and stood watch over his brothers knowing they were engaged in a life and death struggle with the greatest threat and the only hope of humanity on the planet.
He waited. The days passed with the monks frozen inside the mystic barrier comprised of their wills, binding their souls, their very essence into the perfect prison to move the soul of Melioach.
They died quietly on a winter day, three months later.
Melioach consumed the three mages after a long and terrible struggle. In the end, they were no match for an evil that had survived for thousands of years, against all who would oppose him, and even when he lost he came back from death stronger for the experience.
But Melioach was not satisfied. There was another who walked outside and buried the three mages in the cold and harsh ground, piling rocks over their bodies when the frozen earth couldn’t be made to receive their bodies properly. He hadn’t feasted on this kind before, men whose minds and bodies were so strong, so rich with the essence of life.
They were like dragons in manflesh.
Melioach began to plan.
The fourth mystic realized there was no hope of doing what his brothers planned and fell into a quiet despair. For a time, he wandered around the dragon’s supine body and was unable to decide what he should do.
And then he knew. He had a plan.
“Dragon-man, I know you can hear me. I would know what you hope to accomplish by building your home near my body.”
The mystic had taken down the scaffolding which had surrounded the broken body of Melioach and used it to build a small house. It was not well constructed and the mystic was forced to travel to Babeleon for stones for his plan.
His body, hardened by his daily rituals, the terrible cold, the diet of poisonous mushrooms became a thing of iron. He built the home, not to protect him from the environment but to house the travelers who would come to the body of the dragon, some to learn, some to hear the legends, many to harvest, and the few he feared to try and free the soul of the dragon.
When he was younger, he would fight them. His psychic powers while not the equal of the Third Brother, were strong enough and grew stronger every year he lived here. Soon, no mystic could defeat him.
Eventually, he acquired an apprentice. A young man he found lying in the fields, having drunk from one of the more poisonous rivers, he carried him home and cured him. In gratitude, the young man, Onma decided to stay. He would help the mystic carry stones, and when he grew stronger, learned the Triune Way.
The years passed. Melioach invaded their dreams but found these two unlike any who had come before. They had not the petty fears, the mad desires for power, no urge to dominate the landscape, no lust for gold or sex.
They were like Dragons. This made him want their bodies even more. He would stop waiting for dragons to return. He would take the body of the Old Man and make it his. The young one was simply too weak but as long as he was protected in spirit, the dragon could not harm him.
Onma would often leave the Mystic he had taken to calling Grandfather because of his strangely woven beard and old eyes. Though he could not tell how old the mystic was, he never seemed to get any older. Onma left for years at a time and whenever he returned, Grandfather would be there.
There would also be changes in the landscape. There was now grass and trees around the body of the dragon. The pits being dug beneath the spine grew deeper and every year, less and less of the dragon was visible. Only the head remained clearly above the ground. But a group of trees placed at a series of strategic points around the head obscured it mostly from view.
There were tenants, now. They farmed the land and Grandfather taught them how to clean the water, how to raise their plants, how to care for their animals. At night he sat in the skull of the dragon and talked with the beast.
Onma never interfered with Grandfather but their conversations became more audible as his skill in the Triune Way grew. Onma eventually took a wife and tended the trees in the Valley of the Dragon as it had begun to be called.
The city of Babeleon had continued to fall into disrepair and its stone, metals and other materials found their way into the valley and into the lives of the People of the Valley.
Grandfather watched over them. Onma watched over him.
“I have to give you credit, Dragon-Man, you have longevity different than most men. I would have thought you would have died by now. But I see you have linked your spirit to mine, partaking of my longevity. Clever. You know I have allowed this for a single reason.”
“Yes. You believe you will take my body and escape.”
“You know this and yet you do nothing but aid me?”
“Yes.”
“Why? When I escape, I will take your mighty body and slay my way across this planet and then leave for greener pastures and different realms. The gateway at Banarabas is still waiting.”
“I know. But that is not the way we need to go. Leaving our problems behind doesn’t give us a chance to learn from them. Go back to sleep, great Melioach. Your time has not come yet. I make you a promise.”
“What can you offer me that I will not be able to take one day, soon?”
“Your freedom. When the day comes, I will give you your freedom and I will not resist. You have my word.”
“Then I will sleep until you wake me. Or I grow restless.”
Onma lived to be nearly ninety and had eight children and twenty grandchildren. The Valley of the Dragon had prospered with Onma and his family guiding and helping the valley dwellers over the decades.
Grandfather attended Onma’s funeral and took the hand of his wife. She did not weep, for the years had been good to them and in a rare moment of blessing the sun shone strongly all day. She sat with her grandchildren and told them stories of the Valley and when they asked about the broken ruins in the distance, she claimed to remember almost nothing about them.
She sat with Grandfather and had tea. This was the same tea he would use to disuade bandits from returning to the Valley. Bandits who could not be convinced to leave and stay away were buried in a nearby cave with regrets.
Grandfather buried Sonora, the wife of Onma and the mother of the Valley of the Dragon next to her husband five years later.
The Triune Way had become a part of the lifestyle of the Valley, but few wanted to master the secrets of the Order and no new pilgrims had been seen in some time.
Onma’s son, Gorman, took his father’s place as a village elder and agreed he would take on the Triune Way’s secrets. He was strong of body and mind and mastered it’s secrets in less than two decades. By this time, Grandfather had become little more than the wind in the trees. He appeared thin and frail but his body was the product of his will and his relationship with Melioach.
The dragon could no longer be seen. Instead, the Triune Temple stood, where the dragon once lay. It was a beautiful building made from the stones of Babeleon and exotic marbles harvested from the cliff faces of a nearby ocean that had begun to return to life, nearly a hundred and thirty years after Grandfather had arrived here.
The Dragon’s skull had been cut down with diamond-edged tools, salvaged from Babeleon and improved by Onma and again by Gorman, until only the core of the Dragon’s essence remained. This was now the only relic of the Temple which trained the minds and bodies of the People of the Valley. Using the Dragon’s essence, Grandfather cleared away the poisons from the land, the corruptions in the bodies of the People of the Valley, and began taking long walks up the sides of the valley disappearing for days at a time.
He could see the People of the Valley, they numbered in the thousands now. Every color, every shape, stong minds and bodies, learning rapidly now, they learned how to live within the boundaries of Nature.
The lust of the Dragon was no more. It was time for the Dragon to join Babeleon in history. It was time for him to fulfill his promise.
He found Gorman with the village elders discussing how they were going to bring their planting methods to nearby groups of Men who were struggling outside the Valley. The argument was spirited but friendly. He nodded to the group as they welcomed him into the room.
He rarely interfered or intervened these days. Gorman was in his late fifties and had been running things for decades. Grandfather sat quietly drinking a libation imported from one of the Valley’s trading partners. It had quite a bite and it had been years since he had engaged in any kind of intoxicant. There was a pleasant buzz but nothing that couldn’t be dispelled by the Triune state. He could see why it was popular but most of the elders still preferred water and that too was as it should be.
He nodded to Gorman and he allowed the younger man to help him to his feet, though he did not need it. Gorman excused himself and the two walked through town back to the temple.
“I will be leaving tonight. I leave the people of the Valley to you and your elders.”
Gorman walked slowly looking up at the stars, which had become quite the fascination since the sky started staying clearer, longer. The youngest had even begun learning about astronomy after bringing the last of the Triune records from across the world to the valley. The temple of the Triune Order had lay empty for a decade when Gorman began moving its contents to the valley. “I appreciate everything you have done for us Grandfather, but how will we deal with the evil within the temple. It will always temp the weak with its potential for power.”
“I have considered that and I have a way to ensure you will not have to worry about anything other than the evil in your own hearts. Babeleon and Melioach’s plans are no more. Can you do better than they did?”
“I believe we will carry on in a fashion you would be proud of.”
“Then I will ask nothing else of you.”
The two walked in companionable silence until they reached the temple. There was a crowd of people standing outside. The two men moved through the people murmuring until they reached the temple door. When the door was opened the temple glowed a blood red and terrifying whispers could be heard.
“Free me, as you promised Dragon-Man. Melioach demands it!”
Grandfather touched his forehead to Gorman’s and closed the door behind him. Gorman sent the villagers home with the promise everything would be alright. Grandfather had everything under control. He always did.
Melioach woke hungry for souls.
The three Dragon Priests had sustained him over the centuries but he needed to feed. He could sense decades had passed and the Dragon-Man had been busy. There were thousands of souls for him to feast upon once he was free. While he could see the souls of the people around him, he could no longer touch them. The greed he thought was within every Man was gone.
No matter. He could feast upon them even without their greed. He would create fear and after feeding on a few hundred, their baser natures would return. Where was the mystic who had promised him freedom? He hadn’t died, Melioach made sure of that. The Dragon bound their souls together ensuring the mystic couldn’t die and that he would be as immortal as the dragon was.
The only question at the moment, amongst all this bounty was where was the avenue of his liberation? Ah, he drew near. Now he shall face me in all of my fury. I shall take what is mine.
And this world will quake again, in fear.
“Melioach, it is time. Your freedom is at hand.”
“No tricks, mystic. I can see everything in your mind as if it were my own.”
Grandfather smiled. “We are going on a journey, you and I. And don’t get any ideas, I am certainly enough for you to live on for quite some time, so you won’t need to grab a snack on the way out of the valley.”
The old mystic found a robe similar to the one he wore when he came into the valley. No one wore them anymore, but it felt comfortable and right. He packed food for a couple of weeks, mostly because it would be nice to have something to eat, not because he ever needed to eat any longer.
He could feel the dragon’s vitality coursing through him as he picked up the tiny fragment of what the valley dwellers called the Heart of the Dragon. He placed it in the bag along with his food and the two set out.
He allowed the dragon to inhabit a space in his mind, so the two of them could see the valley from a human perspective.
“I don’t need a human perspective, I plan to soar through the skies and pluck humans from the ground as appetizers.” Melioach roared in his mind.
“Possibly. But since you are going to be wearing my body for a while, you might want to get used to walking in the meantime.”
“Fair enough. Where are we walking to Dragon-Man?”
“Banarabas.”
“Are we really planning on walking all the way there? I could teach you a way to fly using my spiritual powers.”
“No, thank you. Walking is good for the soul.”
The portal at Banarabas was overgrown and barely recognizable. Only its powerful essence indicated it was still potentially active.
The dragon had found walking to be the most excruciating thing it had ever been involved in and wanted no more than to kill the old mystic and be done with him.
But now that the gate was nearby, its power resonated within him, he could think of nothing but escape. It was time to act.
Grandfather sat down in front of the portal and entered the Triune State. He could see Melioach as the dragon saw himself. A majestic creature whose scales were as hard as iron, whose wings beat the atmosphere into submission, its spiritual power unmatched by anything living. A mind of incomparable pussiance and capability.
A perfect engine of destruction. Or creation.
“It’s time, oh Melioach the Great. Your liberation is at hand.”
The mystic stood below the dragon, a tiny thing, in the shadow of the beast, but he glowed like a star. The dragon screamed a primal sound, shaking their private moment like thunder.
“No tricks, mystic. I will allow you to die with grace when you surrender your body to me.”
“That is all I can ask, great Melioach.”
“Prepare yourself.”
“I have waited two hundred years for this moment, oh great one.”
“Then, die Dragon-Man so that Melioach can live again.”
The dragon swooped down and consumed the tiny star, his smoky blackness swallowing the human form and the body of the mystic tightened up in the lotus position before the gate of Banarabas.
Melioach stood, stretching his ancient body and despite its wizened appearance, it was clear there was mystic power far beyond what he expected.
He smelled the air. There was only the tiniest taint of corruption. This world was lost. The Triune would rescue this world from the brink. But I can find someplace else in need of a dragon.
Melioach reached into the bag and took the tiny fragment of his former body, this most important fragment and placed it into a tiny nook on the dais before the portal. It surged to life and in the middle of the portal was a shimmering field which flickered showing world after world some beautiful and green, others where dragons blackened the skies, where Men battle against the monsters with technologies unseen and unknown even by Melioach.
This one. He waved his hand and saw dragons and warfare and blood and Men losing the struggle. He knew right away, what he would be looking for would be here. A dragon worthy of hosting Melioach.
As he passed through the gate, he could see the battlefield and his blood, human as it was, came to life with the lust for battle.
“Melioach.”
“What is this? How can you still exist? No matter I shall rectify this problem.” The dragon prepared himself for the struggle against the suddenly renewed mystic.
Grandfather, taking control of his body once more, sat down while shells rained down around him and he re-entered the Triune State. The dragon was there but now it’s body was glaringly white. “I promised as long as we were in the valley I would allow you to take my body. As you can see, we are no longer in the valley.”
Melioach tried to move, to take back the body he so easily controlled earlier. But his anchor to it was gone. His Heart was no longer here. It was left behind in Banarabas and destroyed as they moved through the gate. He lived solely within the body of the mystic and for the first time, he could do nothing but watch as his dragon-form was consumed by the energies of the Triune mystic.
Melioach’s raw power was subsumed by the will of the mystic, made hard from decades of meditation, deprivation, made supple by the love of the Valley, the overwhelming sense of peace as they reclaimed their world. Melioach’s will, his rage, was absorbed with the peace of the Triune Way.
Melioach was no more.
The old mystic looking skyward, sought out the largest dragon he could find and projected his will toward that magnificent creature. The dragon never knew what happened. Spinning around, Grandfather flips his rider to his death below.
On the ground, the body of the aging mystic, was suddenly limp and runes carved into the flesh suddenly became visible. But the heart of iron, which had lasted through sheer force of will would beat no more.
Grandfather, who was once a Triune mystic, for a while a mad hermit, then a repentant elder, and now a dragon considered he who was once Melioach. Who, in his arrogance, never considered that as much as a dragon might want to be able to escape his prison that a man might want the same thing bad enough to prepare nearly two hundred years for a moment when he might take the power of a dragon for his own.
The trees of the valley, the temple of mystic stones, the angles of the sun, the shapes of the fields were all made of the same patterns of Order of the three brothers who died in their confrontation with Melioach.
What they lacked was the patience to see what needed to be done. And even Grandfather hadn’t at the time. It took the planning of a Dragon to teach him that lesson.
Grandfather who was once Melioach and now a dragon swooped down on other dragons about to destroy a group of Men making a last stand. His attack disrupted the wing of dragons until the men could recover and shoot them from the sky.
He landed near the Men and they approached, their weapons out. Using his Triune energies, he spoke to them. Their faces blackened with soot and ash showed amazement as they understood him.
“How long have dragons lived on your world?”
“They have been here for twenty years. We are the last bastion on our world.”
“What do they call you, leader of the last men on your world?
The man looked confused. “I am not the leader of these men. But they call me, Finney.”
“You are now the leader of men, Master Finney. Let’s take back your world.”
“Who are you?”
The dragon stretched out his neck and bade Finney to get on. One of Finney’s men handed him an exotic weapon before rallying his troops to repel new invaders. The dragon turned and released a gout of flame incinerating the ground troops of the dragon invaders.
Leaping into the sky, Finney straps himself in before taking aim at nearby dragons from a completely new vantage point. The dragon he rode on glowed with the energies of the Triune mage within. The mystical energies, the terrible science of Master Finney and the body of an unknown dragon soon allowed them to claim the skies as their own. As they landed and lead the men in a rousing cheer, he at last, responded to Finney.
“You may call me Grandfather.”
Of Old Men and Bad Dreams © Thaddeus Howze 2014, All Rights Reserved
End of Part I
On to Part II
Of Young Men and Hot Ambition
In a world shattered by war, a boy’s ambition to be one of his Valley’s best warriors comes to him at great price.medium.com
Thaddeus Howze is an award-winning essayist, author and journalist for various online publications, anthologies and websites which fancy themselves having discriminating tastes in speculative fiction, non-fiction journalism and critical thinking.
If you like his work, consider donating to his Patreon. It easy to donate. Skip one or two cups of coffee Starbuck’s overpriced coffee a month and send that to him via this Patreon link. Starbuck’s doesn’t need the money.

Of Old Men and Bad Dreams
An aged mystic discovers the boundaries between life and death, at least for…
The Leopard’s Final Razor
What does any good beard want? Acknowledgement, good grooming and a warm face to sleep on…
On the train between Zurich and Bonn a bearded man walked past me and went into the bathroom, remained inside for two minutes and emerged without a beard. Two minutes later a beardless man entered the same bathroom and came out wearing the first man’s beard. I feared for mine.
Such a strange news story was best read on the Tattler, a rag of ill repute, known mostly for tales of the mysterious chupacabra, Royal scandals and, of course, stolen beards. You read the Tattler, you laugh and you go on about your business, wondering how such a rag ever kept money for production. And like any reasonable person, I paid it no mind, at first.
My own beard, was at best, considered anemic by my friends, and at worst little more than badly falling light on my bumpy and uneven face. I had no fear that anyone would want my beard, let alone try and steal it.
After a second man entered the restroom with a full and white beard reminiscent of St. Nick and left three minutes later with nothing at all, I knew something was amiss and I was at the heart of it.
I waited as a new, clean-shaven fellow found his way to the loo and stood at the door as he exited. He was wearing the white full beard of the previous man.
My curiosity got the better of me. I kept repeating to myself, it isn’t possible to steal a beard or to sell one, was it?
I followed the newly bearded fellow. He stroked his new beard as if it were a long-lost lover. I had to know. I stepped into the same restroom on the train, expecting or fearing the same treatment. Nothing happened. My beard, sat, unfulfilled and unstolen from my face. Nor had any new facial hair sprung, fully formed onto my face. Looking in the mirror, I was, I admit, just a bit disappointed.
I left the loo and when I came out, I saw Sir Snowy Beard, the second, looking at me intensely. He exited the train in the next station all the while, apparently talking to himself or his beard, I couldn’t be sure which. I followed him for two days. I stopped paying attention to anything but him and I got on and off the train when he did. We eventually stopped at a station in Leogang, Germany.
This was completely insane. If anyone asked what I was doing this weekend, I would claim a stomach bug or something like that. And if I busted a crime ring, especially something as exotic as beard theft, so much the better, I heard the Tattler paid well for articles like those. I used my smartphone to take as many pictures of Sir Snowy beard as I could.
I admit the idea of a beard theft ring seemed much less ridiculous than it sounds in the retelling. I was a regular reader of the Tattler, so my imagination may have been running wild at the time.
He made his way to the street after stopping at a series of lockers. I stopped alongside and put my bag into the locker as well. I kept my passport, since I didn’t know where this adventure might take me.
He left the lockers and went outside the station. This is when I noticed it. Until now, I must admit beards were something I envied but ignored. No sense paying much attention to something you were unable to be privy to.
Since I was now looking at them, I noticed there were beards everywhere. More than I had expected. Was there a show or convention around beards today? I saw muttonchops and handlebars and Van Dykes and dozens of other beard designs which had no known name to me, but I knew were uncommon at best. Along with the diversity of beards around me, were the additions of costumes, hats, uniforms and even clothing for the beards themselves.
This was when I made my second, more important observation. I was the only person not sporting a full and luscious beard, rich with color, texture and often non-contemporary style. My beard was little more than the scabrous leftovers of a mangy dog. I stood out among these titans of pilosity.
I felt their eyes staring at me. These men seemed surprised to see me among their ranks. They shunned me, as the healthy would a leper.
My third and final observation became horrifying clear.
As I walked along the platform, no longer sure if I should follow my previous mark, I realized for the first time, there were not just men on the platform.
Women dotted the ranks as well. And they were as fully bearded, in some cases, robustly so, as the men around them.
My inadequacy doubled, as these women’s facial hair was equally styled, braided, and coiffed as the men around them. And they too, rubbed and stroked their beards as tenderly as babes in arms.
Feeling conspicuous, I turned and tried to make my way back toward the platform. Bearded folk gently but effectively blocked my path. I hadn’t noticed so many of them at first but perhaps my attention on Sir Snowy beard may have distracted me.
My full attention was now directed on little more than escape. Before I could break out into a full panicked run, I found my way barred by several men dressed as police officers whose very attractively waxed handlebar mustaches seemed to almost twitch independently with amusement.
My German was a bit rusty, but I understood they wanted me to go with them. I could hardly not go with them.
I learned of a beard contest held in Leogang every year and everyone who was in town was either an aficionado or hoped to enter their beard in the contest. I was taken to a police station and told I would be allowed to view the contest if I was on my best behavior.
As a matter of fact, if I understood them correctly, I would be a judge at the contest. They explained to me my lack of a good beard would make me a more impartial judge. Unsure of what they would do if I didn’t comply, I went along and found my way to the judging platform.
Three days of beard judging went by and I admit by the end of it, I knew more about beard texture, colors, ranges, waxes, designs, braiding, depth and complexity than I ever knew was possible. My fellow judges, gentlemen whose facial hair was full and larger than any of the contestants took my ideas and recommendations quite seriously.
The final runoff against three magnificent specimens caused quite a stir among the judges and the contestants who had been eliminated stood around at the edges of the platform in a reserved box close to the stage. I could understand their interest but their intensity seemed strange to me.
This was a beard contest, not a matter of life and death. Or so I thought.
The last two beards were Sir Snowy beard and a particularly strange beard which was split into six individual arms, each was curled at the end, delicately feathered and waxed to a shine. The hair was brilliantly colored, a mixture of the natural red and a wonderful grey coloration which accented the shape of the beard. They called the colored beard, the Leopard.
The two men stood face to face, staring deeply at each other, they circled each other, at first sniffing at each other and then at the beard of the other. I didn’t realize my other judges had stopped writing and turned toward the contest in anticipation.
Then the beards attacked each other with vigor.

Each exploded, quintupling in size, the rapid growth had the sound of a giant zipper being drawn tight. I stood there, fixed as the two men’s beard grew until the men were merely attachments and the beards grappled in an unbelievable struggle.
This was not a silent battle. The sound of whips cracking as hair flashed toward the opponent at the speed of sound. Minor wounds appeared on the men wearing the beards and they appeared to be the focus of the attacks.
In a few minutes the struggle was over. The snowy beard which formed itself into a larger, more fearsome tentacled beast of horror had pinned the grey and orange beard against the platform and whipped him mercilessly until his struggles ceased.
Then the defeated beard left the stage.
It crawled from the defeated man’s face, still in its giant form toward the judging box.
The other judges grabbed their beards, and moved away from the box and more importantly away from me.
Once I realized what was happening, I tried to flee but I was far too slow. The beard whipped out its tentacles of hair and grabbed me. It wrapped itself around my face and I could feel it penetrating my pores, filling my face, I tried to scream but it filled my mouth, smothering my protest.
I fell to the ground, smothering, as darkness filled my vision. All I could feel was a sense of overwhelming shame, forced to join with the nearest, most pitiful bearded man. But it assured me, in next year’s contest, we would be the victor.
I awoke on the train back to Zurich, certain I had simply had the most preposterous dream until I reached up and touched my chin.
My full and luxurious beard glittered in the dim train light. I stood ready to get off the train. Reaching around, I realized my smartphone wasn’t in my pocket.
As I bent over to look on the floor, my beard reached out, surreptitiously dropped the smartphone I left on the seat, into my coat pocket.
I stroked it, lovingly.
The Leopard’s Final Razor © Thaddeus Howze 2014, All Rights Reserved

Thaddeus Howze is a popular and recently awarded Top Writer, 2016 recipient on the Q&A site Quora.com. He is also a moderator and contributor to theScience Fiction and Fantasy Stack Exchange with over fourteen hundred articles in a four year period.
Thaddeus Howze is a California-based technologist and author who has worked with computer technology since the 1980’s doing graphic design, computer science, programming, network administration, teaching computer science and IT leadership.
His non-fiction work has appeared in numerous magazines: Huffington Post, Gizmodo, Black Enterprise, the Good Men Project, Examiner.com, The Enemy, Panel & Frame, Science X, Loud Journal, ComicsBeat.com, and Astronaut.com. He maintains a diverse collection of non-fiction at his blog, A Matter of Scale.
His speculative fiction has appeared online at Medium, Scifiideas.com, and theAu Courant Press Journal. He has appeared in twelve different anthologies in the United States, the United Kingdom and Australia. A list of his published work appears on his website, Hub City Blues.


The Leopard’s Final Razor
A contest of beards in Leogang leads to a hairy discovery

Space Opera
The music achieves a rousing tempo as the noble Erhard, captain of the spaceship Siegfried, sings his defiance to the Martian overlords. The human chorus joins in to support the hero’s bold aria. No longer will the Martians restrain the galactic Human Reich, the chorus sings, no longer will the Martians threaten the universe.
The elderly composer Richard Strauss feels the sweat on his brow. At 84, he has not conducted an orchestra in some time, and regrets doing so on this occasion. But his daughter-in-law and grandchildren needed help, so he had made one final deal with the devil.
Song and music fill the new Grand Opera House, a few miles from the Reich Space Command Center, safely distant from the nearby radioactive ruins of Moscow. The hall is packed with dignitaries. The State Music Bureau had commissioned the opera to honor the upcoming manned Moon launch. The year 1948 would be remembered as the beginning of Mankind’s journey to the stars. Having conquered the world with its atomic rockets, the Reich was eager to focus its subjects’ imaginations on the conquest of space.
The drums beat and the horns blow as the muscular Erhard drives the Martians off stage. The violinists and cellists put their energy into the music as Erhard embraces the beautiful Princess Eva. The attractive couple sing about the future of both their love and the human race. Strauss thinks the opera’s plot is melodramatic science fiction drivel written to meet Goebbels’ specifications, the racist overtones obvious when you substituted the Jew for the green-painted Martian cast.
Goebbels was an enthusiastic sponsor of the opera, active in selecting the cast and costumes. The Reich’s propaganda minister publicly praised the work as a bold “science mythology” for a ‘glorious new age” and was now on site to watch tonight’s debut. The Reich was broadcasting the performance live on all its networks, giving Strauss’ final artistic endeavor a global audience.
Strauss was uncomfortable working with the Nazis, embarrassed by the regard the monsters had for his music. But his daughter-in-law and grandchildren were Jewish, and the only thing saving them was Hitler’s admiration of his operas, so he accepted the Fuhrer’s favor. Few knew of his sacrifice, however, and Strauss regretted that he was perceived as a Nazi supporter.
He had been reluctant to conduct the orchestra, but relented on the condition that his family be allowed to emigrate to the distant and safe regions of South America. For the esteemed Strauss’ cooperation on such an important project, Goebbels was happy to oblige.
As the opera approaches its conclusion, Strauss can feel the weight of the object he conceals in his jacket, and hopes that his resolve will make a difference. He wonders how he will be remembered, for his music or his actions tonight, or if the Reich will allow him to be remembered at all.
Strauss admires the costumes and scenery, the bright gold and green, the smoke and lighting working with his music to create an intoxicating mood. The opera ends, and the audience rises with thunderous applause. The opera is a success.
Strauss, weak, takes his last bow, tearful at his participation in this propaganda, consoling himself that he did so for his family. He takes the small gun he smuggled into the concert hall out of his jacket pocket and puts it in his mouth as members of the audience gasp.
Tomorrow, rockets will lift the Reich’s ambitions to the stars. As Strauss pulls the trigger, his last thought is the horrific notion that Nazi astronauts will hum his music as they plant a swastika flag on the Moon, and he is thankful that the vacuum of space carries no sound.
After years spent hunting monsters and fighting ninjas, Reed Beebe has retired to a quiet village to write. His work has been published by Heavy Metal, Chilling Tales for Dark Nights, and Nothing But Comics.
You can read more about this reality’s Richard Strauss here.

Space Opera
Propaganda from an alternate world
THE MINISTRY
Her freckles where dark against her pale skin as she tightened the last of her wrist straps and stepped out into the cold, grey morning light.
The silver metal soles of her black knee high jackboots echoed softly off the cracked and broken sidewalk as she walked down the street, stepping over trash, hobos, and dog shit.
She hated walking to The Ministry every morning but she didn’t have a choice. Public-Trans never came to this part of the metroplex arcology. Why would it? If she had a choice, she would never come back here either.
She didn’t belong here anymore. With the trash and the crime and the unintelligent heathens.
She was better than that now. Now that she was a Paladin of The Ministry.
Governments had fallen. Corporations had failed. Science didn’t give the masses enough comforts.
But The Ministry was forever. And she was a part of that.
She continued walking, wishing for her mother to die before she got “home”. She didn’t want to have to come back down here amongst The Unenlightened again.
And as she walked, secure and warm in her silver metal straps and jet black fabrics, she looked up, to the horizon, and saw the Obsidian Towers of The Ministry reaching tall and proud into the always cold and grey skies.
And the smile she smiled was cold and grey.
The Ministry was forever.
- end -
photo from the DEMOBAZA clothing line. All rights reserved.

THE MINISTRY
Her freckles where dark against her pale skin as she tightened the last of her wrist straps and stepped out into the cold, grey morning…
I

I’m an idea.
I’m a complex biochemical process inside a metal-ceramic giant we call home.
Our home.
The brain that contains us.
Ten cubic meters per person inside this cocoon flying through nothing. We all try to be different, but we share and keep common signs of our society. Traits of our collective mind. The way we digest information, the way we narrow the right eye when in scruple.
We are ideas of a single mind.
Somewhere among millions of light years of nothing our home meets the other’s. Decision is made, and I glide through the space in a tiny capsule, passing by their messenger coming to our ship halfway. Hangar walls shield stars and I feel difference the same moment.
“Me” is limited to my body now. All our protocols are useless — only common ones can work. Only general information is coming. I see with my eyes only, I hear with my ears, I feel with my fingers.
Different fashion, different tastes, different opinions about the life and Universe. I don’t see colors I’ve got used to, strange shape combinations hurt my eyes, this bright, vulgar light in kverimium shades of A-ultraviolet makes me nervous.
But still we are the same. Walking corridors with my escort I see common details — common for all of us, the details of mechanism spread around three galaxies. I can’t feel them, but I can see them, and I see we are parts of the whole. They see a black spot of silence in their own home but they know we be one blood, they and I. Sometimes they salute me by basic protocols, and some of those protocols are almost forgotten already, and I salute them back. It’s also a protocol in a way.
At the end I’ve almost got used to it. Only when leaving the hangar and feeling the wave of information coming from my ship, becoming the whole with it, I understand the difference. I’ve completed my mission of impulse between two neurons of Mankind busy reaching the horizon, and now I’m an idea again. But I do not cease to be a mind.
I’m an idea. I’m an impulse. I’m a cell.
I’m a mind.
Universe is my name.

I
Visiting neighbors in a distant future
I’m an idea.
Relaxing at the Facepunch Bar and Lounge
Cord Knott, former assassin, now barkeep at the most dangerous bar in the Multiverse is late for work…
From the writing prompt provided by (Start Your Novel)
Cord Knott didn't know he would get a complimentary face massage at his workplace that evening, just after opening hours.
Two card-carrying experts in the art of muscular rearrangement waited for Cord in the shadows beside the front door of the bar, saying nothing to each other.
Cord knew he shouldn't have taken this particular alley so close to his working establishment. The reputation of this alley, often called the Facepunch Bar and Lounge, like the less reputable establishment next door, Mulder’s Bar, preceded it.
As alleys go, it threw long, extraordinarily dark, shadows; known for hiding things best left unseen, facilitating liaisons of both a mundane and illicit nature. Mulder’s Bar had a reputation as a place to be, and this alley, as a place to be beaten.
Cord Knott was late for work; his boss, not known for his winning smile or demonstrative demeanor, was not a man known for his patience, either. Hence Knott’s shortsighted decision to descend into an alley whose paths were ebon at night and often flowed crimson during the day.
Cord Knott was a bartender, a smallish man, black haired, slim but with muscles likened to steel cable; a story for another time why a bartender has such an amazing physique, suffice it to say, Carl Knott was no ordinary barkeep.
After sidestepping the first masseur’s gentle embrace, Cord, stepped in close, allowing the man to over-extend and opened himself up to a measured return of said massage, a staccato rhythm heard only as a popping sound against a thin and close body armor. The exhalations of the well-dressed, dark suited man followed behind each powerful exhibition of Cord’s special discipline.
The second, seeing a less than successful application, attempted to lay on hands in such a fashion he would not recreate the mistake of his fellow, who without their own personal safety concerns being met, would be nursing a collection of manipulations, slow to heal and long remembered.
In empathetic suffering, the second dispenser of facial contusions and reconstruction, whose footwork was more deft than the first, grabbed Cord from behind, in an effort to pull his jacket down pinning his arms.
Cord, flexible as his namesake, slipped free, sensing the pressure of his jacket’s downward trajectory, and realizing this meant leaving his face exposed to the first gentleman who recovering from the invasion of his personal space. The fellow cleared said space with a wide open flourish, his hands a blur filling the air before him with a whirlwind of tiger-clawed activity, known for flaying a face from the bone.
Bending backward like a bow, Cord dropped, a split second behind his now missing jacket, with a sinuous grace, flicked a foot outward. Not a standard massage technique per se, but it was known for releasing trapped phlegm in a congested individual when rigorously applied. The first black suited man’s forward momentum is interrupted, and using him as a support, Cord reaches under the returning guard of the second gentlemen.
Cord, never one to allow one person’s generosity to exceed his own, returned the second muscular gents’ masterful manipulations with a rare and splendid treatment of his own.
Skilled in ancient arts of channel manipulation, Cord, again only with his fingertips, returned their hopeful gift of naked violence, with the measured and magnificent dispensing of his own significant ability in this, a former assassin’s silent art.
The second expert, whose safety and protection apparatus was not as well worn as the first, or perhaps a bit defective and purchased on the shores of crime-infested Mahatma, in either case, was less suited to resist those fine manipulations. He crumpled into the murk of the Lounge part of the Facepunch Bar and Lounge, bonelessly fading back into the darkness from which he sprung.
The first redoubled his efforts, having laid no effective technique upon the very flexible Cord Knott, forged ahead and his vigorous efforts drove Cord backward. Cord matched the less than elegant footwork, stride for stride; he noted he was being driven away from the door of Mulder’s, each step into the Stygian darkness and away from safety.
Cord stepped backward avoiding with a grace belying his occupation things he sensed in the alley, a sofa from an apartment above the alley, thrown out after a recent fire, something about a runaway fire elemental, the sulfurous stink pointing it out to him as something to slip by while avoiding the flying fists of the first aforementioned facial reconstruction expert.
Then he heard the sound of other shadows peeling themselves from the walls. These were the thuggee! Traveling in packs, he could see the shine of their trademark cords and knew unless he was very lucky or very good, in a few minutes the two cents in his pocket might be the last two pennies he ever spends.
The next two minutes we will suffice it to say, the thuggee found their former disciple had learned much whilst in seclusion. The first ten would all nurse terrible injuries into retirement. They would never heal completely, ache whenever weather would shift in the slightest way and never allow them the freedom of a complete and satisfactory bowel movement.
The second ten were not as fortunate.
The third would have their way and began distributing those reconstructions, the first twenty were never able to place. Steel hard muscles protect as they can, but soon, the Thuggee, ferociously dedicated to their arts, drive Cord Knott to within seconds from Death. Without warning, the side door of Mulder’s opens up.
A knee-high boot comes out. Black, scuffed, well worn, with a dagger handle sticking up from the outer flap. The rest of the black outfit was matched by a man who face was nearly as black as the boot.
Eyes that burned like fire, night-black skin, reflecting the light from the kitchen into the darkness, jagged daggers, filling the eyes of the Thuggee, a terrible aura and the tools of his art were in each of his hands.
One glittered, all curves, the other straight, its edge afire, he is a monstrosity agleam. When he opens his mouth, a voice like thunder rolls across the alley, filling the space, sapping it of its immensity, the other monsters for a moment cease in the presence of one so much greater than themselves.
“Mr. Collins, I have asked you to keep your favored past times and work separate, if you can.”
Unable to speak, Collins gasps contritely.
“Anyone, god, demon, mugger, or assassin which makes my barkeep late tonight will have to fear the wrath of the entire Norse pantheon who are sitting in Mulder’s without drink. After sacking an entire world, they are without libation of any kind, and a powerful thirst they have been known to drink the blood of man or demon alike if it will get them a beverage of their preference sooner.”
A flash of sky-splitting-lightning and organ-blending thunder fill the Facepunch Bar and Lounge. A rousing shout from within was filled with the sound of god-like men none to familiar with the idea of waiting. For anything. The thuggee-shadows stand out for a second in that flash of lightning, strobing their hands flashing as they send unspoken signals to each other, their silent conversation a cacophany above the thunder.
Mulder disappears back into the kitchen. Gun and sword vanish along with him. Massage goes undelivered. Garrotes go untightened. A split second of indecision and then the shadows vanish. Soundlessly melting back into the darkness of the famed alley.
Cord Knott stood up, noted the deep lacerations on his protective collar and limped into the back door. Passing the giant owner of Mulder’s, the famed space-pirate himself, who stared disapprovingly at his bartender, Cord looked at him and implored, “Mr. Collins is my mother’s name for me. My chosen name is Cord Knott, bartender at the most dangerous bar in the Universe. Sir.”
An awkward pause follows. Neither man looks away. Poker players in Mulder’s feel the chill of a poker face somewhere colder than their own and simultaneously fold.
“Very good, Mr. Collins. Now see to those Norse deities in the Winter Section. See that they have all the mead bees can create, get more from Arcadia, if you must. Have Odin pay up front this time. No more of those Golden Apples. I had one and I wasn't that impressed with it. Tell him, he only has one eye left and we don’t want anything to happen to it.” Gone is the terrifying spectre that appeared in the alley. Mulder the Old is all that is left of that once great warrior. The shade of once-great Mulder fades into the back office and whatever pitcher of elf-ale he quaffs to forget his part in those Elder Wars.
As sad as he appears, no one would ever imagine stealing from Mulder’s. Her owner may be old, maybe a bit daft, likely a drunkard and often more than a touch irresponsible with his money. He is also a veteran of more wars than most have ever known; he has fought on both sides, neither Heaven nor Hell want anything to do with him, he is banned from both their realms.
Woe be unto anyone who crosses him. Man or God, they are never seen or heard of again.
Cord thought about those golden apples Odin paid a back a severe gambling debt to the house. Mulder was not impressed until he heard the legend of the Apples of Idunn. He ate one. He wasn’t impressed. Said something about heartburn.
Having never eaten a divine food Cord asked and was allowed to consume one. Best thing he had ever eaten. Half an hour later he was dead. And then he wasn’t.
He had been chasing Death ever since. This evening’s exercise was as fruitless as all the others. In Mahatma, former city of sages, now haven to criminal warlords, renegade robots, and demonic fallen legions, with his heart racing, and blood pulsing, Cord is a man alive right before work.
Invigorated by his near-brush with death, he changed into a new shirt, something likely to happen several more times tonight, nods to the giant in the corner wearing the Nemean Lion pelt and takes his place where he plies a different art, one of knowledge, subterfuge, the dance of libation, philters, poisons and elixirs.
With a flourish, Cord sends eight meads fly down the bar into the waiting hands of the Norse deities and a second set follows the first seconds later. Before he can begin mixing a drink he will need a radiation mask to make, an old man wrapped in furs, holding a large ornate spear, throws a bag of money.
The bag is heavy; the throw with considerable velocity. Cord Knott appearing unaware as he makes change at the register. Without looking back, Cord plucks the bag from the air adroitly depositing it within the register’s dimensional cavity (though he did use the mirror behind the bar to get the angle just right).
He notes the gilt and embroidered eye-patch. A frustrated sigh as this signifies no awkward threats would be needed tonight. The old god lumbers away into the Winter section, complete with snow and bitter ice.
Threatening the gods who inspired the Vikings was sure to lead to a disagreement and likely a dismemberment over someone’s honor and often someone dies. Cord hopes one day it will be him.
Tomorrow, he Knott Cord, bartender in the most dangerous bar in the Multiverse, might get lucky and stay dead, a dream two hundred years in the making.
But most likely not. Its what made him the best barkeep for a place like Mulder’s. He doesn’t stay dead. Damned Golden Apples.
Next drink is on the house. Better enjoy it before the fighting starts. Mind that dark alley on your way out.
Relaxing at the Facepunch Bar & Lounge © Thaddeus Howze 2014, All Rights Reserved

Relaxing at the Facepunch Bar and Lounge
Cord Knott, former assassin, now barkeep at the most…
Pictures of Food
Deviled eggs by chick_pea_pie
I don’t remember what food tastes like. I don’t even remember having a mouth. I look at pictures of food and try to remember.
In my thousand-year watch I am alone. Well, not if you include the hundreds of sleepers who ride as cargo. It’s my job to maintain a human perspective on the ship’s affairs while they slumber. They call me the Servitor.
My speakers belch out the words, “Athena, where are we going?” I haven’t thought of our destination in decades. We are floating in the dark void of space, guided by a single star that seems to recede as we approach.
The ship’s computer chirps, “Hubble Epsilon 17B. The star system contains three Earth-like planets as well as two gas giants. In addition, a large asteroid belt…”
I interrupt her. “And how long until we get there?”
“23 cycles,” the computer says.
No idea how long a cycle is.
I return my camera-eye to the large screen in front of me. Pail, ovoid halves with yellow foam and green flecks. Deviled eggs with chives. I try to remember what it would feel like to say “deviled eggs,” but I’m drawing a blank.
The next image appears on the screen. Some kind of arthropods in a yellow paste. Shrimp and cheese grits. What flavors would this evoke if I could eat it now? No idea.
I used to be human. Maybe I still am. I’ve been running diagnostics, reviewing risk assessments, and approving ship’s actions for a long time. If I concentrate hard enough, then I can still remember the contours of my face in a mirror. It’s easier to browse the network encyclopedia food section.
A shadow of memory is trying to rise in me. I had hoped that viewing these images would help. I want to remember the richness of my senses. This body of metal and plastic seems like all I’ve ever known. Part of me rebels against it, but I feel that part fading even as I try to seize hold of it.
A round, whitish, reddish disk with smaller red circles. Pepperoni pizza. I can almost taste it. Then it’s gone.
I go down a long hallway to the observatory deck. I look out at the unmoving stars. I stand there until my energy supply dwindles to nothing. Fade to black.
I open my eyes and try to focus. The hatch opens and a cold blast of air jolts me awake. I sit up, blinking.
“Your Servitor has malfunctioned,” a robotic voice sings. It’s Athena, the ship’s computer.
“The Servitor malfunctioned,” I repeat.
“Yes, sir,” Athena says. “Please come to the neural station so we can scan you and deploy the image to a new model.”
I get up from my pod. I’m shivering. I approach the food dispenser in the lab. “Deviled eggs,” I say. The box whirs to life and drops a white tube into my hand. I squeeze the gel into my mouth. It’s delicious. Tastes just like deviled eggs.
The computer scans my mind and transfers an image of me into the Servitor. It will continue to do my job for centuries. I return to my pod and descend back into unconsciousness.

Pictures of Food
Deviled eggs. How do they taste? It’s been a while since I had a meal.
SWEEPERS
Image by Shane Connolly via https://www.instagram.com/shakaconn/
Bullets rain as you stumble through Sweepers searching for clues amidst the abandoned shell casings of daily gunfire. A frightening yet familiar dystopia where guns and technology blur the lines between obsession and fetishism.
He awoke to a thud. It appeared that his phone buzzed right off the nightstand. He slid his thumb across the screen and Lana’s face appeared, “Dunn, are you awake?” as she adjusted her thick rimmed black glasses.
No, you must be dreaming, he thought sarcastically, “it’s a quarter to 5, Lana, what do you want?” He didn’t have to clock-in for another two hours but Lana’s face told him otherwise.
She placed her I.D. around her neck, “you stayed out long after I left huh?” He laid his phone in front of his face on the pillow and rolled his eyes at the screen as the impending doom radiated from his forehead, a precursor to his daily hangover. She began to laugh and said, “You’re a real bad influence you know that Dunn?”
He began fingering a burnt hole in his comforter and shortly thereafter found the culprit at the end of a trail of smeared ashes on the mattress. “Cleanliness is next to godliness” he thought as he pulled a swig from his bedside moonshine.
“Something’s up Dunn, I received a strange email late last night, you’re cc’d on it too but I assumed you hadn’t checked your inbox.” She was right, after a day’s work was done, he would predictably shut down. “I’m concerned, someone’s asking questions, some kind of investigator wants to be shared on all of our previous case files.”
Lana was wound up, nothing out of the ordinary. Dunn was familiar with a routine shake-down and had no reason to feel rattled. Lana was green though, a fresh hire at Bio Sweep Inc. and had only been a sweeper for about a year. Unfortunately, she got assigned to Dunn, who hardly resembled a role model. He leaned up off the bed, “Take it easy Lana, lets meet at Murphy’s before work, grab a little grub, and get all of our ducks in a row.”
“Okay Dunn, but hurry the fuck up!”
He flipped open his laptop, hoping to assess how this email might take a heaping, steamy dump on the day but instead was greeted to a pre-buffered video of forgotten high-definition pornography, blaring at full volume. This was a bonus, yet equally pathetic considering the context of his degenerate living space, which he both reveled and wallowed in all at the same time. He smirked and carried his laptop to the bathroom and proceeded to decompress his 5-star lifestyle.
As his legs began to go numb from putting off the day from his porcelain throne, the wooden doorway of his apartment splintered, hinges flying, followed by a steel toe boot. Three monolith-shaped men ushered themselves in, all brandishing steel.
“Just a minute!” Dunn echoed from the washroom like a 50’s housewife on her way to the door just after removing warm muffins from the oven. Dunn realized his certain danger and hoped that his sardonic humor may pacify the goons, but they continued to pursue his helplessness. He attempted to stand up from his dawning throne but tripped over his boxer briefs which had been predictably resting around his knees during this embarrassing event. His brow line connected with the hard edges of the bathtub and everything went black.
“WHERE THE FUCK IS DUNN?!” Lana thought to herself so angrily that she was unsure whether or not she had actually said it out loud. In front of Murphy’s she nervously ran her finger around the drum of her American-180 sub-machine gun, staring into her custom-fitted display screen which sat comfortably between 275 rounds of lead.
Dunn was already 45 minutes late, which meant she was late for work, which also meant she was becoming increasingly anxious. With one hand she began scanning for any local headlines that might tip her off as to which case her, and more importantly, Dunn may have blundered, while the other hand satiated her anxiety by sniffing the last of her drone from an empty bullet casing. While sniffing and sleuthing the blogosphere, she noticed:
Missing Man Recovered
Author: Marvin Skurmles
Gary Grickle was last seen on his way to work Monday morning and was ultimately found lifeless, hanging from a drone, evading sweepers, and more importantly, disturbing the peace. In response to this unfortunate event, a statement was made this morning by Bio Sweep: “We do our best to assist the city in avoiding the unfortunate opportunities for citizens to potentially view and dwell on pornographic sensationalism, while also doing out best to maintain the traditions, values, and freedoms that make our country exceptional.” The Grickle family has also made a formal apology…
Lana’s attention was suddenly derailed and shifted towards a series of yelps resembling that of lap dogs, specifically two young bucks on the corner, both waving around matching MAC-10’s. The pistols’ polished exterior shot glistening beams of light in congruence with their brazen grins, which strongly suggested they had recently turned sixteen. Lana shook her head and chuckled thinking, “I remember my first piece.”
Lana reaffirmed her suspicions by employing the use of her digital weapon’s GPS system which identified all the necessary information: the MAC-10’s, the twerps, Clyde and Timmy, and their weapon’s miserable kill count. While reminiscing the days of yesteryear, before she began to make a more legitimate and honest living working for Bio Sweep Inc. (at least by today’s standards), a vintage rusty pick-up truck rounded the corner slowly, but then accelerated, dipping the bed, raising the grill, and roaring like a lion.
Two boys quickly emerged from the bed, like meerkats in the desert, except toting AK-47’s, and raining bullets down on the corner. Lana dipped for cover between Murphy’s and the adjacent building. On bent knee she peered with one eye as the shoot out unfolded.
Clyde had already received the brunt of the spray, convulsing on the sidewalk, as Timmy ran across the front of Murphy’s in a panic, returning fire sideways, eyes closed, screaming for Valhalla, or something. Bullets burned his ass and shatter the few remaining windows at Murphy’s pub that weren’t already boarded up.
Like an axe, the muzzle of a custom rose-gold Bullpup Unlimited Remington 870 Shotgun slammed down across the window sill of Murphy’s, unmistakably the barkeeps returning the favor to the trucker boys. The inevitable caught up to Timmy’s Hollywood reenactment. He missed everything, and received slicing punctures across his midsection.
Simultaneously, two calculated pumps from the barkeep ejected the trucker boys into the street as their loyal companion peeled out down the street, smoke emanating from the holes poked through the bed. It’s all over in less than six seconds.
Chances are, the cause of this outburst was trivial at best, for example, Clyde winked at trucker boy’s girlfriend, trucker boy put Clyde’s masculinity into question, the girlfriend sent Clyde a suggestive selfie, trucker boy got jealous, Clyde, Timmy, and the trucker boys got wasted, end of story. As a matter of fact, she’s been cheating on both of them, she’s actually better than ever. The world keeps turning.
Cheap shots were a daily occurrence ever since police departments began dissolving around the city. Following an “epidemic” of mass shootings, the public’s fear had reached a tipping point. Legislation boiled over and gave the thumbs-up for open-carry laws across the city. In essence, stand-your-ground rhetoric was synonymous to being an American.
While police became increasingly discouraged and outnumbered, vigilantes and criminals alike began to take these skirmishes into their own hands, supplying justice within their own moral framework, whether it be extremist, patriotic, radical, heroic, or pathetic, it was all the same; we love our fucking guns.
So as you may have already guessed, the sirens weren’t wailing, Officer Krumpdick wasn’t dusting off the donut grease from his dewlap, and he certainly wasn’t laying out first responder evidence markers around the shells, clips, mags, casings, victims, participators, hearts, minds, clues, or leftovers. But more importantly, the black step-trucks full of sweepers were already on the scene with backpacks pumped up full of bleach, spraying chemical erasures, cattle hooks thrust out and sweeping up bio mass into trunks, evaporating any inkling of humanity. Remember: Cleanliness is next to godliness.
Lana was already late for work, high on drone, and dreaded the thought of spending energy on an excuse for the likely event that she would run into a familiar sweeper, so taking a cue out of Dunn’s Standards of Living Manual seemed more than reliable. She quickly shuffled through the doorway of Murphy’s, punting broken glass as the patrons reoriented their shields back to their preferred functionality as beverage stands.
While claiming a stool, she caught eyes with the barkeep who raised both eyebrows at her, then lifted his chin slightly, suggesting Lana’s turn in the interaction. “Mezcal, double, on the rocks, please.”
The barkeep nodded and lowered his eyebrows stiffly, reaching down into the well with both hands, staring off behind her at absolutely nothing. He placed the rocks glass down in a stern manner with the dirty palm of his left hand protecting the mountain of ice. “Your boy Dunn stayed here late last night until I put the stools up around him” the barkeep grunted while his right arm returned with the mezcal, splashing it over the rocks. “A sweet bird kept gettin’ him rounds long after you left.” The barkeep slid the mezcal towards Lana slowly, like a gift of great importance, utterly different than his demeanor preparing it.
“Oh yeah?” Lana couldn’t be less surprised; as a matter of fact, she had completely forgotten about Dunn and by this point was far more occupied staring down the sights of her American-180, swiping through potential suitors on the internet.
Gasping, lunging forward, but shackled, and shrouded in darkness, Dunn began to calibrate his five senses to make sense of his predicament. “Hello?” his voice cracked and seeped out fear. He heard nothing, but felt a presence, a tickle right between his eyes, a deepness penetrating his frontal lobe, the kind that makes you feel and think as if you are about to be touched by some unknown force.
He breathed heavily, inflating and deflating the burlap sack that was tightly wound around his throat, perspiring and dripping boozy sweat onto his upper lip, nose running, and hair itching the way it does when you wear a hat for too long. The force lingered but hadn’t coalesced with his being, rather it hovered deeply and buried further into his skull. He felt a whirlpool of sensation, his eyes submerging into his soul, the lack of sensorial comfort consumed him, and poured adrenaline into the most capable of the five: his imagination.
Silence, light deprivation, and solitude all have a way with reality, or at least with what remains of it. They compose a collective symphonic static silence where your self fragments, truth splinters, time eludes you, and your senses polarize. Both panic and fear, byproducts of the unknown, or more importantly, your inability to negotiate where and what you are doing, inevitably take you as their hostage.
A static in the air, a drip off in space, your skin rubbing together, all get lost in the amplification. You tremble, twist your neck, clench your abdomen, exhaust bursting plumes of energy towards anything that resembles a familiar stimulus. Each rest and intermittent silence intensifies the looming spur far worse than the previous, until something hits you, like a bolt of lightning. White light flashes behind your eye lids, and your heart pulses rapidly. The terror, like a phase, resembles a series of infinite bell-curves.
Suddenly, the sack received a puncture and light flowed in, blinding Dunn. A shredding sound tore downward, a cold steel caressed his cheek, and the sack unfolded and collapsed like a dying tulip. “What’s happening?” Dunn nervously spat out, as he was unshackled, but still bound and dragged out of the room. A fist gripped his collar, long nails sunk into his neck, and pulled him across the concrete floor of what seemed to be an unfinished office space within a high rise.
“If only you could defend yourself” his captor uttered.
The captor leaned her shoulder into a steel door, letting in the outside air, a whistling breeze entered through the crack. She pulled Dunn’s body out onto the moonlit roof top and stood over him staring off at the skyline. Her hair blowing over across her face distorting her facial features.
“The lack of agency, the complacency, and misdirection” a rising anger began to erupt from the captor.
“I don’t know what you’re talking about” Dunn stated.
“Fear, Dunn. It’s around us, all the time. Like a burning flame, it both consumes us like oxygen and warms us like heroin. We’re hypnotized by it and they know this. So they shove it down our throats all day long until we’re choking on it. Where do the politics begin and the advertisement end? Who or what is trying to kill me today, Dunn? What am I not doing to avoid my impending demise? They’re all in the business of fear. Your hairline is too far back, you deserve a drink, your wife wants bigger breasts, your neighbor’s car is faster than yours, oh, and by the way, you know his dong is substantially bigger than yours too, right?”
“But more importantly, Dunn, make sure you keep your freedom close to your heart, snuggled up right beside your gun. It’s an impenetrable shield to your constant vulnerability. Except during the aftermath from a tornado of bullets, where they sweep it up, compress it into a pill, and medicate us through whichever moral framework, agenda, or motivation they desire. This is when the gun transcends reality. Instead, an idea, the mind of the radical, the extreme, the patriotic, or some psychological archetype, emerges. You’re just a bullet in the chamber. Are you scared Dunn? Do I have your full attention?”
Dunn ached and rolled his head parallel to the tar roof in submission. A quadcopter drone sat like an obedient pet adjacent to a length of twisted nylon rope.
Bullets cracked off in the distance as Lana stumbled out of Murphy’s with less monetary value than she entered with. She squinted with one eye closed into her custom fitted display screen on her American-180 sub-machine gun, swiping back and forth through windows, texts, news, messages, coupons, videos, reminders, data, and information. She lost her balance, sidestepped and tripped over the curb, falling to her side as her automatic Excalibur slid into the street. She rubbed her eyes, with her head down, and suddenly heard the sound of a static hum overhead, like that of a muted television in your living room.
A drone floated down suspending the shadow of a ghost. It passed through the light of a street lamp, illuminating the bold words painted across it’s torso:
“DRAG YOURSELF OUT INTO THE SUN”
Kevin M. New is a writer, gamer, community-builder, and bartender. His works have been featured on Futura Magazine and the Odyssey online. He currently lives in New Jersey.
Follow me on Twitter or Instagram. Check out my website or join my newsletter, which features short stories from various authors including myself.
SWEEPERS

Bullets rain as you stumble through Sweepers searching for clues amidst the abandoned shell casings of daily gunfire. A frightening yet…
Can You Make Room for the Impossible?
MX2 and Alena, pilots of a Galactic Hegemony Scout-ship, investigate a relic that couldn’t possibly exist…but when you’re a Scout, you have to expect the unexpected.

Alena roused MX2 from her latency. “I want your hexagon peepers on this,” she told the biomech.
MX2 blinked.
“A geothermal station at two miles’ depth,” she said. “Wait. Four thousand years old? That predates the earliest human colony anywhere.”
The biomech adjusted and calibrated the deep core sonic scans placed from orbit through her internal data interfaces. “Your assumptions could be mistaken.”
“I don’t make mistakes like this. Check the scans for yourself. This is a Class Three PowerGen System, with a distinct energy generation signature.”
The android checked its interpretation of her data. That was its job. To ensure quality information made its way back to the Mechanical Minds who uploaded their information to the Religo-Corporate Managers back in Central Space. The highly regulated and stratified culture of the Empire required Human and Mechanoids for all Deep Space Scouting missions.
“The similarity to an Earth-created power-generation system is highly unlikely. We are on the edge of the Great Human Empire, nearly four thousand light years from Prime Earth. It is statistically impossible for such a station to exist.”
Scout Pilot Alena Maximoff did not want to leave the confines of the Chernyy Voron. It took them three weeks to spin up to this speed and would take three more to spin down and check the planet. It would make them six weeks later to the frontier outpost than they planned to be. Unless there was information worth losing six weeks of her life, she did not want to risk it.
MX2 was watching the warp pulse transmissions trying to tease out how such an advanced power generation system could have found its way onto a planet only recently discovered by a survey team. The only reason it was logged was because it had a Class M atmosphere and vibrant ecosystem as determined by the first LFD probes dropped in passing. Telemetry from those probes indicated both a rich ecosystem and remnants of a civilization, thought long dead by the Science Councils back home. LFDs indicated no signs of active intelligent life.
For the signature to be of a Terran powergen system of this size was impossible. A Class Three PowerGen could provide energy to an entire planet. It also required a Massive Dynamics Cargo Vehicle to move it intact and none has ever been assigned to this sector. The movement of moon size ships across Human Space is an incredible undertaking and done only when the prize is worth the expense.
This was a quandary that neither Human nor Near-Human wanted anything to do with. Both had come to the same conclusion.
“It could be a Black Op.” Alena spoke the words MX2 was already thinking.
“If it were a Black Op, why not prevent the original probe signals from sending out any information at all. Or have them send back information that would make the planet completely uninteresting to Central?”
“Maybe they were looking for someone to come and visit.”
“Alena. I know that look. You aren’t actually considering going are you? It will make us six plus weeks late to Outpost Indigo. We are delivering mail before we head out past the Frontier. Our route puts us at the Dark Barrier of the Sagittarius Spiral Arm. The economic opportunities for us could be considerable. No one has ever been out that far. Are you willing to put that at risk for a low priority planet that Survey Division could confirm in a year?”
“No curiosity at all? Not even the tiniest bit? This seemed too coincidental to be a mistake. There’s no scheduled traffic this way for more than five years. The transpulse signal we’re receiving just became active as we got within range, no one else would have received it for another eight years. I just can’t believe it’s an accident.”
The biomech wandered around the command area of the scoutship, preparing the engines for spindown. “I trust your instincts, Alena. Your precognitive ratings were considered good enough to be part of the Psychic Division. I have already set us up for spindown. I have reset your stasis chamber. I will wake you in three weeks.
MX2 powered down after a few days of reading the incoming signals from the probe to clarify the readings. So she was surprised to be receiving a ship’s hail at the end of spindown.
“Hailing the Chernyy Voron. This is the planet U-362. I will be sending landing coordinates to your ship. Please feel welcome and pardon the dust.” The ship had already taken the coordinates but woke MX2 to confirm the codes that authorized landing. The codes were included in the transmission.
“Ship, confirm landing coordinates. Activate the pod and wake Alena.”
Alena arrived in the command module seconds after MX2. Stifling a yawn, Alena asked. “Is that it?” The holographic display system presented three views of the planet. External digital representations included visual light, topographical and data scan information sent in real time.
“Doesn’t look like much, does it? What if I told you something more interesting than all the data you are looking on the screen?”
Alena was intently studying the displays focusing on what looked to be the remnants of a major metropolitan area. It was also where the Geothermic power signals were coming from. “Don’t think that would be possible. I am looking at the surface of the planet and the signal data sent to us does not match the planet’s surface at all.”
MX2 chuckled and said “I can beat that.”
“How?”
“The ship’s command codes were sent with the proper authentication from the planet. Our course was sent from the surface and programmed into the computer.”
“That’s impossible.”
“Told you I could amaze you.”
Alena thought about how remote control ship commands were initiated. Each ship had a remote and that remote required a significant investment in protection. No remote would work without an authorization from a ship, timestamped and coordinated with a pre-programmed signature. It was nearly impossible in this age of computer sophistication to steal or spoof a ship’s control interface. Even if they were trying to hack our computer on approach it would take at least five years with the interface the Voron had on it.
“Well, let’s not keep our host waiting. I think we’ll even get to dress up for the occasion.”
The approach programmed was picture-perfect. The ship felt as if it were barely moving at all, the entire trip. The landing was equally impressive. The two Neo-Humans stepped from their ship in what appeared to be the early dawn. Before leaving the ship, they scanned the surrounding thirty square miles for anything that resembled a weapon from anywhere in the Human Empire and three Alien Empires that surrounded it.
Weapon components could be detected, weapon residue and conflict signatures were scattered around the city. The traces were faint as if the event they depicted had happened centuries ago. No active devices were detected.
When the launch doors opened, the two walked out arm in arm. Alena in her military-like uniform and MX2 in a long and overly elegant dress. With only her head showing, she might have been mistaken for an ordinary Human except for her hexogonal irises in her eyes. The two watched as the morning fog rolled back and the remains of a vast and visually amazing city fell into focus. The sounds of nature were all that could be heard. They grew louder as the robust morning sun burned away the fog. Having no idea of the flora and fauna of the planet, the two could only speculate at what made the cacophony of sounds they heard while they waited.
They didn’t wait long as a single vehicle floated down the street at a leisurely pace.
The vehicle stopped about twenty meters in front of them and a single passenger disembarked. Appearing to be a Human male, his identity was unknown to both of them. Not a signature surprise considering the eight hundred billion humans spanning the Empire. MX2 had the distinct impression she could recognize his walk, but couldn’t place it.
“Hello the ship and crew of the Voron. Welcome to what is left of my city.”
“Hello the land. And who the hell are you?”
“My name is Leonard and I don’t have much time to tell you what I must. I leave it to you to decide whether you choose to believe what I tell you.” Leonard was a tall man, appearing vigorous but signs of multiple regenerations showed in his physical carriage.
His brown skin appeared taut, a bit stretched at the ears. He had no hair and his head had the characteristic shine of the multiply regenerated. He had a bit of venous activity on the rear of his scalp where his body had been altered to increase bloodflow to his cerebral computer. He had had the system long enough that the support structure had breached the skin. Leonard was a strong man and the appearance of the machine only augmented how old he really was. Most humans wouldn’t show this kind of physical development unless they were over four hundred years old.
“You’ve noticed.”
“Yes, Senior. We recognize your vast age and wisdom. What would you have us do?” When Humanity first moved into space, their first Singularity had occurred. Humans, augmented with technology began to live lives far longer than ever. This longevity along with the meeting of Alien entities whose lives were even longer slowly impressed upon Humanity, the value of age. In Galactic culture it was common for much younger races to show obeisance to species whose members could achieve vast age and wisdom. Humanity took several more generations of the species before they understood the custom and participated in it.
“Nothing untoward, if that’s what you’re worried about?”
MX2 spoke first. “No we weren’t about anything like that. We just wanted to understand how and why you called out to us.” The two of them with little fear, entered Leonard’s vehicle and rode silently back to the small house he called home. Leonard helped both of them out of the vehicle and led them inside the house.
First generation robots, the robotic bodies, shiny and metallic, bustled about the small villa, apparently preparing dinner. Neither had seen a first generation robot outside of a museum in their considerable lifetimes. It has been nearly two hundred years since one was in operation.
“Let’s sit on the patio and I promise to explain as much as I can.” He pointed to a robot, “Three Hundred, please bring out the meal and our best vintage.”
The robot paused, taking the order, and then promptly changed direction mid-stride.
Alena had been silent, absorbing what she was seeing and using her gifts and senses to paint a complete picture of what was happening here. MX2 was only too happy to continue to ferret out information in her silence. “Senior, what turned this planet into this?”
Leonard sat down and appraised the young women he entertained. His face remained unreadable while he told the tale of this planet. “This city is the last remnant of the Great Human Empire, four thousand years from now.”
Both Neo-Humans sat quietly digesting his statement before he spoke again. The robot, Three Hundred, returned with lunch and everyone had finished a glass of wine, working on the second before Leonard continued.
“I am over three thousand years old and as far as I know, the last Neo-Human of the Great Human Empire of my time. An invasion of a technologically superior species arrived at the far edge of our galaxy at the same time the future Federation of Races, a group composed of the Great Human Empire and our allies. We never had a chance.
“Our technology by that time allowed us to cross the galaxy in a matter of years instead of centuries. We had begun our first forays beyond our galaxy expecting to be able to reach our galactic neighbors in our considerable lifetimes. Those early Scoutships found these beings coming toward us in the same way we were moving toward them.
“Where cooperation was the means by which we moved into the stars, dominance and submission were how they became starfaring. We don’t even know what they call themselves. They have never deigned to speak to us. Ever. Every communication ignored, every envoy, Human, Neo-Human, Robot, Encased Mesomiasmic Minds, destroyed.
“We thought we were technologically equal, at first. Within the first twelve years, we learned we were not. Their capabilities seemed be increasing doubling every few years. It went from a border war to a retreating fight. Our technologies also increased, especially with the support of our alien allies. It was simply never enough.
Eventually, we realized we could never defeat them in a fair fight. No matter what we did, we were eventually outmatched. Our best Minds considered they might be entirely machine-based. It was the only way to explain their ability to adapt to our tactics and maintain such a long supply chain from their home galaxy. They would need to have a galaxy-spanning intelligence to coordinate resources on the scale they did.
“We did the only thing we could do. We turned civilization over to the Minds. They fought the war, far better than we could. For a moment, we even held our ground at the borders of the Galactic core, where our most powerful Minds were housed. They were held there for nearly a thousand years.
“Eventually, the Great Enemy appeared to stop. They didn’t advance any further. They constantly probed the border and never let any of our ships penetrate their space. The skirmishes stayed along a particular line and this became the established border of Ours and Theirs.
“During the period of reduced conflict, the Federation ramped up its production of military capacity. But a special division had already done the calculations. They decided the Enemy already had the capacity to wipe us out. They were simply waiting until we had created as many new technologies as possible, for them. Once we outlived our usefulness, they would sweep in and gather that technology before leaving our galaxy and likely doing this again.”
Alena had not let the tale of galactic destruction dampen her enthusiasm for food that had been grown planet-side, especially food which had been grown as organically as food had been. She had started working on her third course before she notice MX2 had stopped eating. The biomech Neo-Human didn’t need nearly as much food as an Organic did but enjoyed eating just the same as Alena normally did.
Alena reached out her hand and place it on her friend’s. The ancient Leonard did something uncharacteristic of the Seniors of the modern Empire. He reached out for her and took her into his arms. The Human Seniors were far less inclined to engage in physical contact. Something about becoming detached from their connections to their flesh. Over time, they became positively remote and even machine-like. An even stranger conundrum was the fact the longer Minds and Biotech Humans wore flesh, the more they wanted and sought human contact.
The three stood hugging together, sharing an imperceptible shiver, for some time in silence.
Alena was the first to break away and looking up at Leonard. “Why are you here? For that matter, how are you here?”
“This planet was the last weapon we created for the war. A contingency plan when the Minds knew they couldn’t win. But we needed a moment far back enough that we could have a chance of changing things. This moment was chosen. Before we could complete the launching of the planet, They came and attacked us. We were barely able to escape. The Human Empire was destroyed. Everything except this planet. This planet with a blueprint for every technology we created during the Last Great War.
“We need you to be a messenger to alter your future.”
“It will create a paradox.”
“We know. The Minds indicated it would erase our timeline completely but for you, the threat is still real and they are still out there. I checked when I arrived. I’ve already mapped out how far they are and it will still be three thousand years before you run into them. I leave it to you to decide how to make the changes. I don’t know if we can trust the Science Council with what I am about to give you. It could change everything about your civilization if they discover these things before they are ready.
“So why don’t you come back with us and talk to the Minds and the Councils. Hearing it from you would have more clout than two Scouts and a planet full of mysteries.
“It’s not possible. I can’t leave this planet. I am temporally locked here. When you leave here, this planet will no longer exist, anything on the surface of it will also vanish.”
“How long do you have?”
“Reality is collapsing behind me. Whatever you chose to do was successful. I have been monitoring the timestream behind me and I suspect I have less than a day.”
“And you waste the entirety of it, feeding us and telling us about the end of life as we know it.”
MX2 looked at Alena and shushed her. “We’re the first company he’s had in four thousand years. It’s exactly the kind of thing you would do, in his place.”
“Master, the time draws near. The package is ready.”
Leonard rose from the table and wiped his mouth. “Ladies, I have enjoyed our evening together, but it’s time for you to be going. I will take you back to your ship.”
“I, we have so many questions…” Alena began.
“All I can tell you will be in your package. Now, let’s hurry.”
The drive back down the mountain to the ship was even more tense than the ride away from it. Leonard quietly explains as they slowed down to approach the landing field. “I am going to be giving you a temporal lock-box. Once you leave the planet, it will allow the information held within to be accessed but it will only be able to be accessed by you, Alena and MX2 in your place. If anyone else tries to open it, it will remain frozen in time, unable to be accessed by anyone, whose temporal technologies were less than ours. In your galaxy, that means no one.
“This means you have the most important job in the galaxy. To decide what people need to know and when they need it. You will have to figure out a way to steer the galaxy clear of the vector of the enemy. It is our approach to their fleets which changes their direction toward us. It is possible, they might even completely have missed us except for our efforts.
When the car stops, robots in the vehicle following them load a container the size of a foot locker onto the ship. A second robot brings a medical transfer unit to Leonard. “This is keyed to your specific DNA and timelocked to you. It cannot be transferred copied or stolen. Only the two of you will ever be able to access this data archive.”
He exposes their hands to the purple rays of the medical scanner. When he’s done, he hugs both women whispering different things to each quietly in their ears. A common farewell among Galactic cultures, for a Senior to share a parting bit of wisdom with a Younger sentient as a going away gift. Many Seniors possess psychic abilities or incredible awareness honed by their centuries of living.
With tears running down his face, he kisses them both and shoves them toward their ship. He tapped his watch and stepped back to the final robot who opens a bottle of wine.
He makes great theater of the smelling of the cork and breathing in the essence of the wine. The two women board their ship and turn to watch him salute them before drinking his wine.
The ship is in the air as the two women change into their stasis suits. “What did he tell you?” Alena asked MX2.
MX2 smiled. “He told me to change my name to Minx. He said a long life deserved something besides a biomech designation. I like it already. You?”
“He told me to take care of you. The galaxy might depend on you one day.” But she was not completely honest with Minx. What he told her was very different. “She was the most important person in my life. What I gave you, I did not have when she died. I never got over it. If you can’t save anyone else, save her.”
She didn’t understand until she went to her quarters and found a stasis box with a timestamp on it. The stamp was for nearly one hundred years from now.
The recording light was flashing indicating a message. She pressed the button with trepidation. “This is a single use message. Alena when you hear this recording, the planet you were standing on will have been gone for less than an hour. You will still see us but I will have been dead for decades. Inside this box is a biomech, Mecomiasmic Mind Core. Where I come from, Minx dies while you are on a deep space mission when an un-correctable fault occurs in her MMC. I know they are extremely rare but it’s caused by accidental radiation exposure when you two explored the core of the galaxy. She was the most important person in our life. You have to save her, the fate of the galaxy may depend on it.”
A long pause with the sound of uncomfortable shuffling was heard. “I had a long time to craft that core. I did it myself to be sure it would work and be compatible. You be sure to tell her curiosity always got us into trouble. And I wouldn’t have missed a single day of it with her. And neither will you. I envy you, Alena Maximoff. Make our mutual sacrifice worthwhile.”
Alena wasn’t sure what Leonard meant and considered it to be the centuries of loneliness addling his mind. The stasis box contents however, was indeed, a Mecomiasmic Mind Core.
It was only after she returned to the command module did she understand. Minx, smiled, walked up to her and kissed Alena by surprise. While they had been partners for years, Alena had no indication Minx felt this way about her.
“There was one more thing he told me. He told me to live without regrets. To do that thing I most wanted. So I did. You don’t mind do you?”
“Not at all. It’s not everyday I get to kiss the most important woman in the Galaxy.” In two Galaxies…
Minx sat down to spin up the engines and redirected the scoutship back on course to Indigo Station. “Why do you suppose he reminds me so much of you?”
“Maybe in his universe, I was a handsome guy with a hot Neo-Human girlfriend.”
Maybe I take on a different gender in a century or two… I don’t know what’s inside that stasis box.
I guess there’s room for the impossible.
Can You Make Room for the Impossible? © Thaddeus Howze 2014, All Rights Reserved

From a writing prompt created at http://www.startyournovel.com/2014/05/can-you-make-room-for-impossible.html

Can You Make Room for the Impossible?
MX2 and Alena, pilots of a Galactic Hegemony Scout-ship…
Time-Lost Travelers
An answer to the Fermi Paradox
‘Contact’ by Abiogenesis
“Son, we need to talk.” My father glided into the fractal hall in the shape of a dragon. Whenever he assumed this shape it meant there was liable to be talking, droning, and possibly even yelling.
“As I was using manifold-space, investigating the effects of stellar fragments on hyper-dimensional continuity, I discovered a tiny ship interrupting the space-folding systems of my wave-runner. I was nearly absorbed into the stellar fragment as my temporal field was disrupted.”
He had changed colors several times during his description. He was right to be angry. By accident, my project almost killed him.
“I had to save myself and then once I realized what happened, I noted they were plunging toward the singularity. I assumed they were yours and plucked them out of space-time.” He held out his rapidly changing claw and a tiny ship, something primitive and three-dimensional, sat in his great palm. I could see the attempts to create a ship for seven-dimensional wave-running, their primitive ores and nascent glide-shielding allowing them to enter manifold-space for a short time.
I tried not to smile. It was not the right time to say anything yet. He usually berates me three times before I get a chance to defend myself. My efforts in this instant were best directed toward defusing his anger when my turn came.
“How did it get out? Just explain this to me. You have initiated the proper protocols? The ones we agreed to when you began this project?”
Now it was my turn. “Most beneficent parental unit, I understand my project appeared to have gotten out of my control and take full responsibility for what has happened. I admit to more than coddling them against your previous instruction, possibly because a recent period of growth caused me to lower my safeguards. It appears I was in error.”
“What remedies have you tried to retard their growth? They need limits.” He had not quite entered the repercussion stage of our dance. I still had a diminishing window of opportunity to put a good face on this.
“I tried the standards; most of them seemed more than adequate for a few thousand revolutions. Temperature variation, ecosystem depletion, energy shortages, random food instability, I even fomented revolution and dropped an asteroid personally to ensure maximum reduction in their population.” I made the bow of contrition to the fifth degree indicating I was not done.
“My failure came when I realized they had outgrown their primary habitat and inspired one of them to create the first Lorenz drive to allow them to find new industrial and relocation options within the confines of their habitat. I had no idea they would become clever enough to extrapolate later drives from this first design.”
His rage spent, he went to the center of my hall and accessed the habitat with my favorite project. He zoomed in on their primary habitat world and found a major city. “Good activity, lots of mindless capitalistic bustling, a thriving financial infrastructure. I see lots of greed and corruption. With indices such as these, I’m having a hard time seeing how they got, oh, wait. I see, look over here. There is enough money they can send their young for high-quality education. See these right here, doing nothing? They’re dreamers, schemers, always trying to avoid work, or envisioning new ways of being. Those dreamers are the worst.”
“They have been quite interesting. I’ve high hopes for them.”
“We’ve been over this. You cannot enable them. They breed too quickly, live entirely too long, and spread out as fast as they are able. You know how the saying goes.”
“’Once you’ve got Humans, you never get rid of them.’ What should we do?”
“Can they use cybertechnology, interfacing with machines?” He had taken on the glow of Control. He’s confident of a solution.
“Yes, it has been a source of great pride they managed to not erase themselves as part of this biotechnological upgrade.”
“I recommend you utilize a low-grade bio-infiltration virus, attack the oldest members of their societies. Trim away the oldsters and they lose the bank of wisdom keeping them less warlike.”
Cybertech plagues are hard to control. “How do we keep it from spreading?”
“Make it count its generations and stop, should be just enough.”
Understanding, I take the ship from my father, getting into the spirit of experimentation. “I know just the carrier. Time-lost travelers…what stories they’ll tell.”
“I better not find any more.”


Thaddeus Howze is a writer, essayist, author and professional storyteller for mysterious beings who exist in non-Euclidean realms beyond our understanding. You can follow him on Twitter or support his writings on Patreon.
Time-Lost Travelers
An answer to the Fermi Paradox

