The Mystery Behind the Missing Malaysia Airlines Flight Isn’t Solved Yet
An ‘Atlantic’ cover article claimed to have closed the case on the unexplained disappearance of MH370 in 2014, but there are still gaps in the story

Competition Won’t Fix Big Tech
Antitrust regulators should block natural monopolies from acquiring their biggest threats: new potential monopolies

People Are Buying Fillers Online and Injecting Them Into Their Own Faces
Sketchy online shops and YouTube are serving a dangerous market for “DIY” cosmetic procedures

Tumblr’s Vital Queer Community Is Disintegrating
Besides a still rampant porn bot problem, adult content on Tumblr is pretty much gone

The Launching of the Santa Fe Institute
A pioneer in the study of complex systems tells the origin story of one of the most famous intellectual institutes in the world
The first workshop to define what is now the Santa Fe Institute took place on October 5–6, 1984. I was recently asked to give some reminiscences of the event, for republication of a collection of papers derived from this and subsequent workshops.
It was a slightly dark room, decorated with Native American artifacts. Around it were tables arranged in a large rectangle, at which sat a couple dozen men (yes, all men), mostly in their sixties. The afternoon was wearing on, with many different people giving their various views about how to organize what amounted to a putative great new interdisciplinary university.
Here’s the original seating chart, together with a current view of the meeting room (I’m only “Steve” to Americans currently over the age of 60):

Next Up on Your Twitch Stream: Chess?
How Chess.com plans to turn a classic game into the next big esport

When Will the Next Hurricane Strike California?

The Biggest Challenge for Facebook’s Libra Is Money
The social media platform’s planned experiment with cryptocurrency needs to work as well as regular currency

My Garmin Edge 520 Knows Everything About Me, and I Love It
How a bike computer that does nothing more than spit out numbers helped me figure out who I am
This is “I Can’t Live Without,” a column about the apps, gadgets, and services that make all the difference.
If there is one thing you should know about me, it’s that I ride bicycles a lot. This year, I have spent 253 hours and 36 minutes on the bike, covering a distance of 3,753 miles, and ascending 223,953 feet.
I know this because every time I go for a ride, my Garmin Edge 520 is there, recording my every movement, heartbeat, and pedal stroke down to the second. As I putz along it sits there, fixed to my handlebars with a $30 machined aluminum mount, shouting numbers into my face.
It is the only piece of consumer technology that I trust.

Why You Need to ‘KonMari’ Your Nerd Life

The Challenges of Having Children in Space
Tech titans like Jeff Bezos and Elon Musk want human beings to move off-planet, but reproducing away from Earth could be incredibly difficult

How Cutting-Edge Tech Is Empowering Ancient Archaeology
Lidar, drones, and more are helping field researchers uncover hidden worlds

Google Can’t Figure Out What YouTube Is
And its users are suffering for it

We Already Know What Our Data Is Worth
New legislation would require tech companies like Facebook and Google to disclose the value of users’ data, but we don’t need laws to put a price on our autonomy
On Monday, U.S. Senators Mark Warner and Josh Hawley introduced what they’re calling the Designing Accounting Safeguards to Help Broader Oversight and Regulations on Data (or DASHBOARD) Act. The bill aims to do three main things: require tech companies to regularly disclose to users how their personal data are being used, which third parties that data is being shared with, and the value of the data people provide to platforms.

The Real Reason Apple Wants You to Use Its Sign-in Service
Control in the guise of security

How a Rare Solar ‘Superflare’ Could Cripple Humanity
Our networked, electrified society makes us uniquely vulnerable to the effects of sudden solar weather

Wikipedia Shows How to Handle Political Polarization
Even when editors disagree sharply, the site’s firm rules enable them to produce accurate entries

Inside the Race to Build the Netflix of Food
Kraft-Heinz’s Evolv is using the algorithmic analysis pioneered by tech companies to help us plan our meals

Meet the Man Who Wants to Fix Dating With the Blockchain
‘We want to take dating and bring it back to being consensual, respectful fun.’
It’s a general truth that if there’s a social problem in the news, someone will propose a technological solution to it. Enter the UK-based Consent Tracker, which is seeking beta testers now and promises a “safer dating experience” by enabling users to “[build] consent throughout your date.”

Exclusive: A Group of Microsoft Employees Is Fighting the Company’s Political Action Committee
Employees say there’s no way to dictate how the PAC spends their money, even when it conflicts with the company’s progressive values

Congress Must Act on Regulating Deepfakes
An A.I. policy expert on the desperate need for a new law that will seek to protect Americans from manipulated video

Could A.I. Help Get Homeless Youth Off the Streets?
By identifying patterns in successful rehousing, a research team in L.A. is working to make the housing system more efficient

Smartphone Privacy Is Under Threat at the Border
Invasive searches of devices and computers are becoming more common for border crossers, but they’re being challenged in court

Regulators Just Put a Target on Apple’s Back
Forget WWDC: The company now faces major scrutiny along with other tech giants

How Will Facebook’s Libra “Blockchain” Really Work?
An expert guide to the social media company’s foray into cryptocurrency

Siri’s Gone M.I.A.
But Apple still has some A.I. tricks up its sleeve
Siri used to be one of the most important elements of Apple’s software lineup.
But at the company’s Worldwide Developers Conference on Monday, the virtual assistant got about as much attention as a $999 monitor stand. Maybe less.
Siri is so central to Apple’s software that it’s the only real application you can launch with a physical button, but the most substantial new feature it’s been given since 2011 are user-built “shortcuts,” which was launched last year.
Of course, Siri isn’t the only reason Apple develops artificial intelligence. The addition of accessibility features like Voice Control and Augmented Reality show that the company is working to refine speech understanding and computer vision. But virtual personal assistants have become a crown jewel for tech companies, a concrete marker to show how advanced these companies have become.
For some reason, Apple has stopped playing the game.
These conferences, for better or worse, have become events for large tech companies to lord their research department’s prototypes over an audience of developers hoping to piggyback off the technology for their own applications. Google and Microsoft have tried to make big splashes with A.I. product and prototype announcements. Even Samsung is trying to figure out new uses for its “Bixby” assistant.
Virtual personal assistants are the best example of this showboating. They’re easily demonstrable, and the initial success of Alexa and Siri suggests many people understand how they work. (See: “The Octogenarians Who Love Amazon’s Alexa.”)
Last month at Microsoft Build, CEO Satya Nadella introduced an upcoming version of Cortana he promised would be far more conversational and aware of context from calendar invites and emails. A day later, Google announced an entirely hands-free workflow with the Google Assistant, which will soon process voice commands on the Pixel phones without having to connect to Google servers. On the Siri front, Apple announced… just about nothing.
This might be due to internal turmoil surrounding the previous development of Siri. The team developing the virtual assistant had been plagued with infighting and differing visions for the product since its launch, according to a wide-ranging report from The Information in 2018.
Earlier this year, Bill Stasior, who had run Siri since 2012, switched to another role at Apple. Siri is now under the command of John Giannandrea, the former head of Google’s A.I. and search teams.

On Using Tech While Poor
The sheer mental stress of poverty utterly changes our relationship to technology

It’s a Huge Mistake to Memorize Your Passwords

Why One Arctic Fox Took the Longest Migration in the Species’ History
The effects of climate change can be tracked in a single animal’s record-breaking journey

News Needs to Meet Its Audiences Where They Are
Faced with avoidant consumers, media companies must experiment with different technological formats
The Reuters Institute released its annual Digital News Report last week, and among its many findings a couple jump out.
One is that when it comes to news, more people are putting their heads in the sand. Almost one third (32%) of the world’s population avoids the news, up 3% from 2017, the report found. In the U.S. that figure is higher at 41%, up from 38% in 2017. As the American Press Institute and Nieman Lab have pointed out, there are a lot of reasons behind this news avoidance problem, but the leading cause for Americans (at 57%) seems to be: “It can have a negative effect on my mood.”

Meet the Ex-Neo-Nazi Using Tech to Deradicalize the Far Right
Brad Galloway employed the internet to find new recruits for neo-Nazi hate groups. Now he uses it to help them leave.
Brad Galloway opens up his phone and scans through his most recent Facebook messages.
“I’ve been in the white power movement for five years and I want out,” one reads. “I hate who I’ve become.”
“Really struggling with the loneliness today,” another says. “I don’t have a single buddy left after leaving the group.”
Galloway carefully replies to each one. He advises the guy desperate to leave that he should make steps to reconnect with old friends from his days before joining the far right. He talks the second through positive things he could fill his time with, such as sports or going back to school.

The Personal Newsletter Fad Needs to End
I know it feels nice to write about you. But really, it’s just another bloody thing to read.

To Revive the Mac, Apple Wants to Kill Electron
The dramatic-sounding Project Catalyst promises a new way forward, but the road is uncertain

Dark Mode Isn’t the Answer to Our Screen Problems
Research suggests the feature is overhyped as an accessibility tool
The night is overtaking our computer screens.
It’s coming in the form of dark mode, a trendy feature in the tech industry in which the standard bright backgrounds are substituted with a muted navy or black. Twitter launched its dark mode for web in 2017, while Facebook Messenger introduced a dark mode feature in April of this year. Most notably at WWDC last week, Apple announced it will include a dark mode option in iOS 13, which launches this fall. Apple claims that dark mode will “make every element on the screen easier on your eyes,” while some users assert that dark mode is better for people with people with migraines.
But there’s little data to show that dark mode is actually easier on the eyes for most people. Even for users with vision impairments, dark mode isn’t necessarily better than other accessibility options that have been available for years, though there is little research on the subject overall.

Here’s What’s on Ben Horowitz’s iPhone
The Andreessen Horowitz co-founder talks crypto, notifications, and more

The Future of Alzheimer’s Treatment May Be Enlisting the Immune System
A new theory for Alzheimer’s disease is emerging, and at least one company is taking advantage of the new thinking with drugs in human trials

Dangerous DIY Sunscreen Recipes Are Spreading on Pinterest
Misplaced concerns about chemicals in over-the-counter sunscreens are fueling a new problem on social media
Everyone’s trying to make a buck on alternative and all-natural remedies these days.
Sephora launched a “Clean at Sephora” category in 2018, aiming to help the increasing number of customers who are afraid of chemicals like parabens and phthalates to find products without them. Consumers are buying vitamins and supplements in record numbers, despite evidence that they’re ineffective for most people. And, of course, vaccine hesitancy is becoming a massive public health concern, with the World Health Organization naming it one of its top 10 biggest risks to global health.

This Is Why Uber Drivers Play Such Bad Music

Doctors Are Braving Social Media to Battle Medical Misinformation
But not everyone agrees they should

Email Autocomplete Is Sucking the Life Out of Communication
The new services turn email into bloodless business speak. So why are we allowing Silicon Valley to dictate what we say?

I Saw ‘Dark Phoenix’ So You Don’t Have to
Here’s what you need to know, because you clearly aren’t going to see it yourself

The Reality Is Virtual, But the Motion Sickness Is Real

Why Machines Need to Dream
The ingenious neurobiology of mammalian sleep has been mathematically modeled to streamline A.I. memory and storage capacity

My Apps Have an Anxiety Problem
‘They spin, buffer, and refresh endlessly, searching for something that isn’t out there’

How Bethesda Could Fix Game Streaming For Slow Internet Connections
Google Stadia and other platforms need all the help they can get

Why Our Devices Stopped Playing Nice With One Another
Walled gardens aren’t the limitless digital future we were promised
Science fiction has long created the expectation that we would eventually be able to make a video call from any device, to anyone in the world, with just the flick of a wrist.

The Night My Doorbell Camera Captured a Shooting
The 36-second video changed my perspective on home surveillance

Beyond the Dark Forest Theory of the Internet
Re-learning how to be yourself online

The Masochistic Gaming Ecstasy of Super Mario ‘Kaizo’ Hacks
A nightmare from your childhood, this Mario exists to break you. But you’ll find meaning in the pain.

Privacy Is Just the Beginning of the Debate Over Tech
Controversial ‘smart locks’ show the way that surveillance tech begins with the poor, before spreading to the rest of us
In a weird case of who knew we had to fight for that particular right, last month a judge ordered that landlords in New York were required to “provide physical keys to any tenants who didn’t want to use the Latch smart locks installed on the building last September.” This legal ruling came after residents of an apartment building in Manhattan banded together and successfully sued to prevent their landlord from replacing the physical locks in the lobby with smart locks.
The Latch, and similar keyless locks opened using smartphones, are increasingly common features of apartment buildings across the U.S. In their opposition to this forced upgrading, tenants listed myriad reasons why the smart lock did not actually offer the enhanced convenience and security their landlord claimed it did. These issues ranged from some of the older residents not owning smartphones to larger concerns around the landlord being able to monitor and harass tenants. “I said I don’t want to be tracked, and the landlord laughed,” a 72-year-old resident of the building told CNET.

Telemedicine Will Change How Underground Abortions Work
But it’s hardly a solution to legislation against reproductive rights

Why My Job Is Safe From the Robots
In a world of automation and algorithms, human authenticity will be worth more and more

This Alternative to Google Maps Aims to Protect Indigenous Land
Even high tech often ignores indigenous lands, but an ambitious mapping project called LandMark is helping communities stake their claims

Hacker Video Games Are Experiencing a Renaissance
Why do people love to roleplay as a hacker, and what do these games teach us?

Long Live Recap Podcasts

The Best Wireless Earbuds Actually Have Wires
The new Powerbeats Pro earbuds are a sign that newer isn’t always better

The One Rule of Content Moderation That Every Platform Follows
For YouTube, Facebook and the rest, if a decision becomes too controversial, change it

Why Reddit Just Doesn’t Work Anymore
Plus, two solutions that could make it great

How 1989’s ‘Batman’ Defined the Superhero Movie Experience
On its 30th anniversary, much less has changed than you’d think
Last week, actor Robert Pattinson became the latest square-jawed actor to win the role of Batman. Predictably, a bevy of nerds freaked out. Much the same happened just over 30 years ago when it was announced that Michael Keaton was cast as Batman in Tim Burton’s film. The more things change, huh?
Actually, it turns out more things have stayed the same since Batman premiered in 1989. It broke ground for superhero movies in a lot of ways, much of which today’s Marvel and DC blockbusters still tread. But what’s most surprising is how little people’s feelings and expectations about these movies has changed over the past three decades.

Why Game Streaming Will Finally Work
Services like OnLive have tried and failed. Stadia and xCloud should succeed.

Don’t Be a Phonehead
Smartphone zombies are ruining city life

The Legacy of Amazon HQ2: Rebellion Against Corporate Welfare

What Happens When You Google “Gay Child”
Tech platforms have purged apps that promote discredited gay conversion therapy, but organic search results can still steer users to anti-LGBTQ groups

The Hyperloop Concept Is Finally Growing Up
Competing visions for Elon Musk’s technology are coming down to Earth

Why We Love to Watch Monsters Fight
The new movie ‘Godzilla: King of the Monsters’ reminds us of the strange joy of sitting through an epic battle between very, very large creatures

A Privacy Dustup at Microsoft Exposes Major Problems for A.I.
The most important datasets are rife with sexism and racism
The results you get when you search for an image on Google have something in common with Siri’s ability to listen to your commands. And they each share DNA with the facial recognition projects rolling out to the world’s airports and beyond.

How to Raise Money From a VC
On whether to raise venture capital, how much to target, and how to spread it out
Should you raise venture capital for your startup? If so, how much?

A New Constitution for Content Moderation
Social media platforms should look to human rights law to govern speech on the internet

Trying Out a Gender-Neutral “Vibrator for Everybody”
The Enby, a new sex toy, is designed to adapt to a range of different genitals
When Amy and Nick Boyajian launched their sexual wellness store Wild Flower in 2017, they had a very specific vision for what they wanted. As non-binary people, they were turned off by mainstream sex shops like the Hustler Store, which rigidly divide their products into sections for men and women. Eager to offer a more inclusive alternative, they dreamed of a space where sex toys could exist free from gendered labels, where no one made any assumptions about how toys had to be used, or what sort of stimulation someone might want purely based on their gender.
As Wild Flower built up a fan base, the newly minted shopkeepers started getting curious questions about the kind of toys that didn’t seem to be on the market yet. “We were getting a lot of requests for toys that would fit into a harness, toys that can be humped or grinded against,” Amy explains. “We also had a friend of ours who was transitioning physically and made a comment about how she had to throw out a lot of her toys now because her body had changed.”
Those requests led the Boyajians to the same central question. “Can we create a toy that can work with all different types of bodies in different circumstances?” Amy remembers asking themself. Eager to assist their customers, the Boyajians decided to go from being sex toy retailers to sex toy manufacturers.
This month, they debuted their inaugural product: the Enby, a “vibrator for everybody” that boasts its ability to adapt to, and pleasure, a range of different genitals. A stingray (or, if you prefer, bicycle seat) shaped toy, the Enby can be mounted and rubbed on, tucked into a harness, nestled between two partners’ bodies, or wrapped around a penis. And those are just what comes with the directions: Nick and Amy love the idea that customers might find wholly new uses and setups for the product on their own.
Enby isn’t the first product to market itself as a gender-neutral sex toy. In 2014, PicoBong launched the Transformer, which the company billed as the world’s first gender-neutral vibrator. The following year Jimmyjane’s Form 5, which plays up its ability to pleasure both vulvas and penises, debuted on the market. But neither of these products has developed a particularly passionate fan base.

Home Internet Is Becoming a Luxury for the Wealthy
Poorer Americans are increasingly reliant on smartphones as their primary way to access the internet

Facebook’s Libra Cryptocurrency Could Be Great, if Not for Facebook
Regulators shouldn’t let this get off the ground
Facebook has been trying to “fix” how we send and receive money for years through products like Facebook Credits and “Send Money to Friends in Messenger.” Enter Libra, an upcoming cryptocurrency that has a couple of modest goals: “Reinvent money. Transform the economy.”

It’s Time to Rebel Against the Existential Threat of Climate Change

Facebook’s Libra Masterplan
The social media’s company move into cryptocurrency takes advantage of regulatory loopholes
Facebook is very knowingly exploiting a very specific gap in regulations and technology made possible by the cryptocurrency industry that will allow their planned “Libra” cryptocurrency to flow into the black market economy while still being compliant with traditional financial entities’ compliance policies.
(I don’t use “black market economy” as a bad word here. The right to financial services should be universal, since leaving the control to gatekeepers creates a tool that is much more likely to be successful at oppressing people than at keeping the bad guys out. The problem with the Libra is that it’s a part of Facebook’s broader surveillance capitalism strategy. I’m a privacy proponent and I usually spend my free time writing guides on Privacy & Cryptocurrency for the Human Rights Foundation. In a previous life, I built cryptocurrency exchange platforms.)
The exploit works by following a playbook that was written by the Bitcoin industry. The exploit emerges in the gaps of a little puzzle consisting of a few key players:
Here’s a diagram showing how they view their relationships with each other:

Is ‘Interactive Storytelling’ the Future of Media?
Or does passive and active content serve different purposes?

Snapchat’s Gender-Swap and Baby Filters Doubled App Downloads
But can the company build on the momentum?

When Ignoring a Text Is the Polite Thing to Do
Social norms need to keep up with how we communicate today
It used to be a commonly held belief that every request deserved a response. Not replying to someone who had sent you an invitation, made a request, or asked a question would be seen as a breach of the social contract. Indeed, it’s the entire basis of the RSVP, which literally comes from the French phrase “répondez s’il vous plaît,” or “please respond.”
This may have worked well back in the days of the home phone and snail mail, but how many requests would the average person need to respond to in 1990 anyway? These days, however, it’s a barrage.
Requests for our time come from friends, family, acquaintances, and complete strangers. They come via messaging apps, on social media, email, or any number of online services. And that’s before you add the multitude of automated reminders of previous requests that sneak back to find you just as you’d stopped feeling guilty about ignoring the first notification (looking at you, Facebook Events).
We don’t communicate the same way we used to, so why should the old rules of etiquette apply? In the era of social media and texting, here’s a thought: Not replying to a request should be an implied “polite no.”
This pragmatic change to how we communicate effectively in 2019 helps both the asker and the askee in setting better expectations. If no response is assumed to be a “no,” both parties win.

China’s War on Dissidents Spreads Online
30 years after Tiananmen Square, Tibetans and Uyghurs activists are being targeted via chat apps and the internet

The Climate Commencement Speech Our College Grads Deserve
We’ve handed our children a nightmare, and it’s time to tell them the truth
Good afternoon to the graduating class of 2019! Wow. You did it.
To the administration and faculty, to the parents and friends, and to the many distinguished guests joining us today, thank you so much for being here.
As you may have heard, Colorado College booked Oprah Winfrey for commencement this year. Wayne State had Jack White. Bard got Jamaica Kincaid.
You guys… Well, you got me. Sorry. Welcome to the real world.
In any case, here you are. You worked hard, wrestled with new and challenging ideas, made lifelong friends. You overcame formidable obstacles. You formed study groups, crammed for finals, pulled all-nighters, and when the going got really tough, you dipped into your roommate’s Adderall. You did what you had to do, and in the end, you pulled it off, making you part of the roughly 60% of American college students who manage to graduate. And now, here you sit. Congratulations!

To Trust Apple Sign-In, You Need to Trust Apple
Experts agree that it’s not perfect, but it’s almost certainly better than what you’re using

The Internet Has a Serious Problem With Murder Videos

Why Adults Need to Stop Complaining About How Kids Use Technology
Their habits simply mirror ours
Doors slam quickly when I return home after picking up my 11- and 14-year-old sons from school. They’re not angry or depressed, but they seem to crave some time alone on weekday afternoons. I guess they need opportunities to be liberated from the social stress of the everyday school routine. And their preferred way to do that is online. I sympathize, but I also can’t help but be annoyed.
Within minutes, I can hear the muffled sound of YouTube videos blasting from my sons’ smartphones. After a while, they transition out of the spectator role, and I cringe hearing them scream into their headsets as they play multiplayer games with friends from school. Their overly enthusiastic conversation mimics the exclamations, trash-talk, and humor they regularly hear from the web’s most popular video-streaming stars. I roll my eyes.
I’m typically sitting at my desk, settled into my comfortable Steelcase swiveling chair, trying to respond to emails and finish the day’s work. But my kids’ pubescent voices are distracting. Their use of slang, idioms, and inside jokes is downright irritating. Also, I’m tired of screaming at them to “watch the profanity.” So, I pull on my Sony WH-1000XM3 noise-canceling headphones and launch Pzizz, an app that creates an ambient soundscape, algorithmically engineered to encourage focus and productivity. Sometimes, I just need solitude; I need ways to ignore the children.

The Game Boy That Changed My Life
Quick reflections on an old gadget made new

How Tech Redefined the Experience of Culture
Video games and social media require human users to enter into a procedural loop known as flow
Beginning in the late 1960s, a new group of technologists (including Douglas Engelbart’s team at Stanford, Alan Kay and others at Xerox PARC, and later Steve Jobs and his colleagues at Apple) set about to redefine the computer as a medium for representation and communication. By developing the personal computer, the graphic user interface, 3D computer graphics, local- and wide-area networking, they helped to provide millions of users with a digital platform for reading, writing, and eventually aural and visual communication.
These technologists had a modernist conception of what a medium is and of their capacity to engineer culture, but in fact they were designing the platform for media culture at the end of modernism. The digital media they helped create now support an enormous, heterogeneous world of media forms, makers, and users, a world with as many centers as there are communities, and more communities than anyone can know.
If the printed book and the library were suited to define hierarchy and cultural order, networked digital media are suited to foster multiplicity and competing orders. The internet and the World Wide Web provide an ideal environment for the various elements of traditional high culture and popular culture to coalesce into their own media communities. The fragments of modernism turn up in many of these communities: among film critics and enthusiasts, makers and critics of video games, industrial designers of computer interfaces, tablets and smartphones, graphic designers for print and digital media, and so on.
For some digital communities, then, it makes good sense to keep close to the modernist heritage. The stand-alone computer of the 1940s was a modernist machine, the physical embodiment of the finite-state logic of Alan Turing. But today, when each computer is part of a dynamic network of devices, applications, and users that constitute the digital plenitude, the grounding assumptions of modernism no longer suffice.
The loss of hierarchy in cultural knowledge clears the way for greater participation in our media culture. Traditional universities coexist with online communities that share knowledge without any formal credentials. Gallery art coexists with online art of every style. In fact, style itself, which was the imperative of modern art, is now completely a matter of personal preference. Play becomes a powerful metaphor for cultural participation, and playing in the plenitude means assuming there is no imperative, nothing that has to be done based on a controlling historical understanding. Everyone is invited to play in whatever corner of the plenitude she cares to, and all kinds of making and playing can be characterized as art or creativity.
While there are no universals in media culture today, there are many qualities worth exploring, because they are shared by many communities or because they are compelling remediations of the age of modernism. One of these is procedurality. Popular modernist writers today claim that this is the essence of the computer: its procedures (algorithms, programs) allow it to interact with other machines and human users in increasingly complex and creative ways. Video games and social media are procedural: they require human users to enter into a procedural loop that both constrains and empowers them. Procedurality is itself the latest version of mechanization, which has been a key condition of society and the economy since the Industrial Revolution. While modernism was vitally concerned with the cultural meaning of mechanical and power technologies in the 20th century, today’s media culture is exploring how far procedurality and simulation can penetrate into and redefine creative expression as well as our politics and everyday lives.
Procedural media often favor a particular state of mind in their users. Video games and other contemporary cultural experiences aim through repetition to induce in their audience a state of engagement that the psychologist Mihalyi Csikszentmihalyi has named “flow.” The player of a video game, a Facebook user, or a YouTube viewer falls easily into a state in which she simply wants the experience to continue at a more or less constant rhythm.
This flow state in digital media contrasts with another familiar state of mind often called catharsis. Popular films, novels, and a great deal of traditional music aim to evoke catharsis, an emotional release through identification with a main character. And even if the newest digital media favor flow rather than catharsis, neither aesthetic seems likely to eliminate the other. Neither is dominant in our time. Millions prefer to spend their leisure time watching films, whether in a theater or streamed to their computer; millions play video games; and of course many millions do both. What is new is that the flow aesthetic has an equal status with catharsis. Video games are now as legitimate a cultural experience as novels, though largely for different communities.
Remix is another facet of our current media culture that thrives in and through digital technology. DJs, dance remixes, and hip-hop (all now supported by digital sampling and mixing machines) are among the most influential musical trends of recent decades. And the internet’s vast (commercially available and pirated) resources of photographs, films, television shows, and printed texts invite professional and amateur players to appropriate, edit, and combine samples into new versions.
Remix is a repudiation of the modernist and earlier romantic notions of originality. Remixes on YouTube and throughout the web may be clever or trivial, compelling or mind-numbing; they may be original and derivative at the same time. Huge remix communities today reject the absolute values of authorship and intellectual property that seemed unquestionable in the heyday of the printed book. Yet even some of the pioneers of the current digital media technology protest against the “remix ethic” of borrowing and revising, because interfaces and applications can be revised and remixed as well as songs and films.
To a time traveler from 1960, the present would look like a chaos of media forms all competing for our attention, far too many to absorb and appreciate. The view from the present is that the earlier media culture is parochial, limited, and hierarchical, especially because of the absence of participatory media. In 1960, a relatively small group of producers controlled the content for a huge audience of consumers. But the relative cultural unity of that period also meant the categorization and marginalization of women and minorities in the media to an even greater extent than today.
Although no one can travel back in time, there are many today who seem to be stuck in a particular moment in the past. I mean contemporary critics who evaluate our current media culture from a perspective that belongs to the mid-20th century. They assume that we should still have a unified media culture for art and entertainment and an agreed set of standards of evaluation. Whether they realize it or not, they are popular modernists who want to reinstitute a hierarchy of forms enlarged to include their own popular favorites, such as film or rock music, raised to the level of art. What they fail to acknowledge is that the same forces that freed us from a rigid definition of “high culture” have brought us to a plenitude in which there can be no universally shared hierarchy. It should be no surprise that the shift from that earlier cultural condition to the current plenitude entails both loss and gain.

Preservationists Are Saving Video Game History, One Upload at a Time
Games are key to understanding modern culture, but archiving them can be surprisingly challenging

Are Man-Made Glaciers the Answer to the Himalayas’ Melting Ice?
How one man’s plan to irrigate the Ladakh desert is drawing inspiration and critics

Why Agritech Is Israel’s Next Big Import
The small country’s agriculture solutions are spreading its tech-sector influence

How Video Games Help Us Navigate Real-World Problems
The sci-fi writers Tom Chatfield and Julian Gough discuss how games are becoming an important route to understanding a uniquely challenging moment in history

A.I. Ethics Boards Should Be Based on Human Rights
Tech companies should ensure their ethics boards are guided by universal human rights and resist bad faith arguments about diversity and free speech
Co-authored with Brenda K Leong
Who should be on the ethics board of a tech company that’s in the business of artificial intelligence (A.I.)? Given the attention to the devastating failure of Google’s proposed Advanced Technology External Advisory Council (ATEAC) earlier this year, which was announced and then canceled within a week, it’s crucial to get to the bottom of this question. Google, for one, admitted it’s “going back to the drawing board.”
Tech companies are realizing that artificial intelligence changes power dynamics and as providers of A.I. and machine learning systems, they should proactively consider the ethical impacts of their inventions. That’s why they’re publishing vision documents like “Principles for A.I.” when they haven’t done anything comparable for previous technologies. (Google never published a “Principles for Web Search.”) But what version of ethics should they choose? Ethical norms, principles, and judgments differ between time, place, and culture, and might be irreconcilable even within local communities. There’s so much disagreement that red lines aren’t even easily drawn around truly alarming A.I. applications, like lethal autonomous weapons and government scoring systems such as the one China is experimenting with.
Further complications arise because businesses, unlike individuals or governments, are accountable to shareholders. Fulfilling their fiduciary obligations can mean prioritizing growth, emphasizing profit, and working with international clients whose political allegiances vary along the democratic-authoritarian continuum.
This has led, understandably, to skepticism about the sincerity of corporate ethics. Whenever tech companies talk about ethics, critics worry that it’s a strategy for avoiding stronger government regulations and gaining goodwill, consisting of empty slogans followed by minimal legal compliance. Hence, when tech companies establish external A.I. ethics boards, they’ll probably be viewed as self-serving, “ethics washing” facades.
The cynicism is often justified. After all, these companies tout transparency but promote “trade language that prevents it,” are accused of supporting A.I. ethics researchers who don’t always disclose their corporate funding, and, in one prominent case, keep the composition of an ethics board shrouded in secrecy. If tech companies want to create meaningful ethical practices, they need to invite the right people to their ethics boards and empower these folks to make publicly available recommendations that hold businesses accountable to transparent standards.
Through design decisions, implementation strategies, and unintended consequences, A.I. has the potential to impact lives across the globe. In military, law enforcement, banking, criminal justice, employment, and even product delivery contexts, algorithmic systems can threaten human rights by automating discrimination, chilling public speech and assembly, and limiting access to information.
Recognizing these problems, leading frameworks for A.I. governance base their approach on human rights, including the European Commission’s Ethics Guidelines for Trustworthy A.I., the Organisation for Economic Co-operations and Development’s Principles on A.I., Business for Social Responsibility’s A.I.: A Rights-Based Blueprint for Business, Data and Society’s Governing A.I.: Upholding Human Rights and Dignity, and Access Now’s Human Rights in the Age of A.I.
Human rights are imperfect ideals, subject to conflicting interpretations, and embedded in agendas with “outsized expectations.” Though supposedly global, human rights aren’t honored everywhere. Nevertheless, the United Nations Universal Declaration of Human Rights is the best statement ever crafted for establishing all-around social and legal equality and fundamental individual freedoms. The Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers rightly notes that human rights are a viable benchmark, even among diverse ethical traditions.
“Whether our ethical practices are Western (Aristotelian, Kantian), Eastern (Shinto, Confucian), African (Ubuntu), or from a different tradition, by creating autonomous and intelligent systems that explicitly honor inalienable human rights and the beneficial values of their users, we can prioritize the increase of human well-being as our metric for progress in the algorithmic age.”
Technology companies should embrace this standard by explicitly committing to a broadly inclusive and protective interpretation of human rights as the basis for corporate strategy regarding A.I. systems. They should only invite people to their A.I. ethics boards who endorse human rights for everyone.
Once board members are selected, tech companies must require these experts to maintain a demonstrated commitment to human rights throughout their tenure. If due process reveals that a board member says or does something that is substantively out of line with human rights, she should be removed no matter how high her profile or how significant her past contributions. It’s that simple. The penalty is strong but appropriate, and it disincentivizes “digital ethics shopping,” which is the corporate malpractice of appealing to malleable ethical benchmarks to justify status quo behavior.
Article 4 of the UN Declaration of Human Rights states no one shall be held in slavery. Surely, at this moment in history, that should be an uncontroversial ethical proposition. Yet the International Labour Organization (ILO) estimates that as of 2017, 25 million people are victims of forced labor or slavery. These include cases of sex trafficking, child soldiers, and labor for domestic work, construction, and agriculture. So if such an obvious human right remains aspirational, consider the challenges of more complex issues, such as Article 16’s right to marry.
The LGBTQ+ community is one of the most vulnerable worldwide, subject to everything from limited employment (Article 23) and social opportunities (Article 22) to conversion therapy and even torture (Article 5). Countries that criminalize same-sex relationships and gender nonconforming identities have higher rates of mental health issues and suicide within these groups. And gay marriage remains a controversial topic almost everywhere, one that’s often linked to religiously-based, restrictive conceptions of human rights.

How Tech Helped Create a New Erectile Dysfunction Crisis
Startups are exploiting the market Viagra created, but experts are wary
In 1998, Pfizer hired Bob Dole to be a spokesperson for Viagra. The former senator and presidential candidate epitomized the target audience for the new erectile dysfunction (ED) medication: A 75-year-old prostate cancer survivor, Dole’s erectile struggles were brought on by advanced age and ill health. In a commercial for Pfizer, he notes that conditions like diabetes, high blood pressure, and prostate surgery can also result in erectile issues, solidifying the public image of ED as a problem primarily faced by the elderly and the infirm.

These Are the 3 Questions About the ‘Game of Thrones’ Finale That Matter
Despite the show’s happy ending, the future of Westeros is still dark and full of terrors

The FCC’s ‘New’ Plan Won’t Save America From Robocall Hell
The agency’s unwillingness to stand up to industry will likely be the proposal’s undoing
On any given day, the Federal Communications Commission (FCC) is blasted with a torrent of consumer complaints. Some are legitimate, while some are aggressively stupid. In addition to gripes about terrible broadband or high TV prices, the agency is routinely inundated with reports about everything from the unbelievable storylines in professional wrestling to the threat of subliminal penises on MythBusters.

The ‘New York Times’ Crossword App Was a Friend When I Needed One
The black and white squares kept me sane, and now I can’t live without them
This is “I Can’t Live Without,” a column about the apps, gadgets, and services that make all the difference.
There are certain words the New York Times crossword always comes back to. It is fond of the creme-filled OREO, of tides that EBB, of an old Russian TSAR (or CZAR). It enjoys IMO, shorthand for a texter’s expression of opinion. And it inexplicably loves the musician Brian ENO.

The Huawei Sanction Might Just Pop the Tech Bubble
This crisis is about much more than one company
Last week, Chinese tech giant Huawei was officially sanctioned by the United States. That effectively means U.S.-based companies are banned from doing any sort of business with the mobile phone giant moving forward. And this is just the beginning.

It’s a Good Thing That Shopping on Your Phone Is the Worst
You’re primed to make bad decisions when you shop on the go
There is no worse way to shop than on your smartphone.
I almost never do it, and I’m surprised that so many others do. Navigating online shops is a chore. Images rarely zoom or scroll correctly. It’s hard to compare one item to another. Large arrow icons block out parts of clothing or furniture, if they appear at all. Checkout functions aren’t well-suited to touch screens either; typing your address and credit card number into a new shop is miserable.

The Huawei Disaster Reveals Google’s Iron Grip on Android
Open source isn’t as open as you think
Google’s Android is pitched as the open, free-for-everyone alternative to the iPhone. However, to comply with a recent order from the U.S. government, Google pulled the Chinese tech company and smartphone manufacturer Huawei’s license to use the proprietary Google software that sits on top of Android. In doing so, Google quietly exposed the powerful control it has over its supposedly open phone ecosystem.

What Really Happens to AirPods When They Die
Apple finally opens up about their complicated afterlife
AirPod owners love them. Everyone else, it can seem, hates them. Apple is, by all indications, selling oodles of them. But what happens to AirPods when they get old and die? Does the same seamless design that helped to make them iconic also make them an environmental abomination?
It’s a question a growing number of critics are asking as the Bluetooth buds nestle their way into ever more ears. Based on my conversations with e-waste recyclers, repairability experts, and Apple itself, however, the answer is neither as straightforward as you might hope nor quite as grim as you might fear.
Three years after their debut, a generation of AirPods is nearing obsolescence as their lithium-ion batteries degrade (or they get lost or dropped down the toilet) and owners upgrade to the new model, which came out in March. At the same time, a new wave of customers who initially eschewed the $159 ear-sticks is considering whether they might just be the sort of people who would wear them after all. While Apple doesn’t report sales figures for AirPods alone, the buds and the Apple Watch are part of a category that boomed to $5.1 billion in sales in the first three months of 2019 alone. Market research suggests that AirPods are by far the world’s best-selling wireless earbuds.

Sex Toys Are Finally Getting the Update They Deserve
The Womanizer has an awful name, but it may have changed an industry

You Shouldn’t Fear Amazon’s Alexa
Why paranoia about digital voice assistants is overblown
Star Trek vs. George Orwell’s 1984. No two cultural touchstones better illustrate our diametrically opposed feelings about voice systems.
Star Trek’s always listening, ever-helpful Computer represents the highest ideal of a digital assistant, while Orwell’s Telescreen, with its “Big Brother is watching” messages, was emblematic of our darkest fears. With each passing year and digital assistant breakthrough, we vacillate wildly between these two perspectives.
Bloomberg recently reported that Amazon was employing thousands of humans to comb through utterances and transcribe what we say to Amazon’s Echo-based voice assistant. The revelation broke an unspoken agreement between Amazon and the millions of Echo and Alexa-enabled device owners who assumed that only algorithms, not humans in a back office somewhere, would be analyzing our words for meaning.
Amazon isn’t Big Brother, but its 613,000 employees and $232.89 billion in annual sales revenue puts it at nation-state scale, raising concerns about a company with that much power listening in on our private conversations
Upon learning of this, many of us, myself included, paused to remember those moments when Alexa responded even when we didn’t utter the “Alexa” watchword. What did we say to prompt it, and what was Amazon doing with the information?
In reality, not much. Amazon didn’t deny its use of flesh and blood people to dip into the Alexa conversation stream, plucking words and sentences for its own purpose. However, those purposes were, as Amazon tried to make clear in its official response, more benign than anything Orwell might have imagined: “We only annotate an extremely small sample of Alexa voice recordings in order [to] improve the customer experience. For example, this information helps us train our speech recognition and natural language understanding systems, so Alexa can better understand your requests, and ensure the service works well for everyone.”
It went on to say that those transcribed conversations are not connected to any personally identifiable information.

‘Pokémon Detective Pikachu’ Is a Lie
The movie hides darker truths about prejudice, civic infrastructure, and pooper scooper laws

Beyond-Outdated Internet Laws Are Ruining Lives
We need a new weapon in the fight to stop trolls from spreading harmful footage
In 2015, Alison Parker, a journalist, and Adam Ward, a photographer, were murdered on air by a former employee of the TV station where they worked. The shooter recorded the killings with a camera worn on his chest and later uploaded the footage to Facebook. Now, more than three years after Parker’s death, her father, Andy Parker, is still engaged in a Sisyphean feat: trying to scrub the footage of his daughter’s death from the internet, where it regularly appears as part of conspiracy theories claiming that the deaths were staged. His weapon? Copyright laws.

Why Stellar Research Remains Under the Radar
The pressure to publish may be averting researchers from pursuing out-of-the-box, groundbreaking science

Tech Companies Don’t Need PACs to Dominate Politics
How Apple and other companies strong-arm policy and why that matters
Nathan Proctor is director of the Right to Repair Campaign for U.S. PIRG, an advocacy organization.

The Dark Forest Theory of the Internet
This is also what the internet is becoming: a dark forest
In his sci-fi trilogy The Three Body Problem, author Liu Cixin presents the dark forest theory of the universe.
When we look out into space, the theory goes, we’re struck by its silence. It seems like we’re the only ones here. After all, if other forms of life existed, wouldn’t they show themselves? Since they haven’t, we assume there’s no one else out there.
Liu invites us to think about this a different way.
Imagine a dark forest at night. It’s deathly quiet. Nothing moves. Nothing stirs. This could lead one to assume that the forest is devoid of life. But of course, it’s not. The dark forest is full of life. It’s quiet because night is when the predators come out. To survive, the animals stay silent.
Is our universe an empty forest or a dark one? If it’s a dark forest, then only Earth is foolish enough to ping the heavens and announce its presence. The rest of the universe already knows the real reason why the forest stays dark. It’s only a matter of time before the Earth learns as well.
This is also what the internet is becoming: a dark forest.
In response to the ads, the tracking, the trolling, the hype, and other predatory behaviors, we’re retreating to our dark forests of the internet, and away from the mainstream.
This very piece is an example of this. This theory was first shared on a private channel sent to 500 people who I know or who have explicitly chosen to receive it. This is the online environment in which I feel most secure. Where I can be my most “real self.”
Podcasts are another example. There, meaning isn’t just expressed through language, but also through intonation and interaction. Podcasts are where a bad joke can still be followed by a self-aware and self-deprecating save. It’s a more forgiving space for communication than the internet at large.
Dark forests like newsletters and podcasts are growing areas of activity. As are other dark forests, like Slack channels, private Instagrams, invite-only message boards, text groups, Snapchat, WeChat, and on and on. This is where Facebook is pivoting with Groups (and trying to redefine what the word “privacy” means in the process).
These are all spaces where depressurized conversation is possible because of their non-indexed, non-optimized, and non-gamified environments. The cultures of those spaces have more in common with the physical world than the internet.

The Cooking App That Changed My Life
Paprika may just do the same for you, too
This is “I Can’t Live Without,” a column about the apps, gadgets, and services that make all the difference.
My mother is weirdly protective of her recipe box. The little handwritten cards can’t leave the kitchen, despite the fact that only a few of them are truly irreplaceable. I never understood why she would put so much stock in a tiny box of index cards, until I got my own.
My collection of recipes doesn’t live in a physical container, though: It’s in an app called Paprika. And while Paprika bills itself as a “recipe manager,” it’s far more than a simple list of dishes. It’s really more like a cookbook shelf, grocery list, personal assistant, and fancy calculator rolled into one, and it’s become one of the most important apps on my phone.

Google Is Finally Copying Apple’s Approach to Privacy
New features will help keep your data on your device
Few companies are as enthusiastic about analyzing your data as Google. Yet the data giant also wants you to know it cares about your privacy. How can it reconcile these contradictory stances? By taking a page out of Apple’s playbook.
If you were watching Google’s I/O keynote this week, you heard one phrase repeated over and over: “on your device.” This easily overlooked phrase marks a subtle but important shift in philosophy for a company that’s spent years collecting massive troves of user data. Instead of sending every bit of information about you to a far-off server farm, Google is following Apple’s example of analyzing data on your phone, supposedly without ever sharing it with the company.

The Largest Unnamed Object in the Solar System Is Getting a Formal Title
How astronomers are tapping the public to name 2007 OR10

Instagram’s New Anti-Bullying Nudges Could Actually Work
Simple but effective, according to experts

Meet the World’s Most Bio-Tracked Man
Scientist Michael Snyder tracked his own basic measurements for years. Now he’s released a study of over 100 people using similar data to make lifesaving discoveries about heart disease, cancer, and diabetes.

The Best Reason for Your City to Ban Facial Recognition
The technology isn’t ready. Society isn’t ready. And the law isn’t ready.

Some of the Rarest Bears in the World Are Under Threat
A viral video of a rare Himalayan brown bear under attack puts a spotlight on a little-known species on the brink of extinction

Google’s Most Interesting I/O Announcements, Ranked
Hint: The new Pixel phone isn’t one of them

Femtech Could Be the Solution to Medicine’s Male Bias
Female engineers are building a new health care industry, but its future depends on mostly male investors

DJI’s Action Cam Is Ready for Any Condition
The company’s first action cam is a rugged winner
I’m at the “Brooklyn Zoo” and the animals are jumping from ledge-to-ledge. One leaps over my head and I adjust my position. I want to get the best shot.
Those animals are all young men, parkour experts to be exact, and they’re leaping, diving, flipping and running up walls in a parkour gymnasium called “Brooklyn Zoo” in Brooklyn, NY. I’m there recording it all with a palm-sized action cam from DJI called the Osmo Action.
Unveiled on May 15, this is DJI’s first action camera and is just another step in its quest to conquer action photography in the air and on the ground.
At a glance, the $349 Osmo Action could be mistaken for a GoPro. It’s blocky with a lens on front and a big touch screen on back. But DJI adds a few important touches, including a 1.4-inch front facing screen, which might make it the ultimate action selfie cam.
Rugged, solid feeling (but not heavy), and ready to wear, hold or attach to a stick, the Osmo Action is built to go where the action is. DJI rates it for water operation up to 36 feet, without the need for a pressure/waterproof case. It can also handle dust, cold and heat.
I didn’t have the opportunity to take the Osmo Action for a swim, but did shoot with it out in the rain, which it handled just fine. Then I submerged it in water and captured a little video. That went, ahem, swimmingly, as well.
On the top of Osmo Action is a physical power button and to the right of it is an instant record button. As the name implies, even if Osmo Action is off, you can start recording immediately simply by pressing that button. There’s another button on the left side, called QuickSwitch, for rapid access to shooting modes, including slo-mo, HDR and Time-lapse. (You can customize which presets appear on the list in settings.) It comes in especially handy if you’re shooting underwater and can’t access the touch-screen gestures.
Speaking of the touch screen, it’s relatively intuitive. Swiping up from the bottom sets shooting quality (up to 4K at 60 fps), swiping from the left accesses playback. Swiping from the right accesses manual camera settings like focus and ISO level. You access settings by swiping down from the top.
The, gray, palm-sized video camera was the perfect tool to capture the twists, jumps, turns and dives of the parkour team. Owing to its size, I could get super-close to the action without getting in the way. All the parkour performers were wearing Osmo Actions, too.
Osmo Action’s wide-angle but not fisheye lens lets me capture the action and surrounding environment without significant distortion. It’s also appears ready to handle the quick-change exposure conditions you might encounter in an action shoot. For instance, the Brooklyn Zoo was full of natural, but uneven light. However, as I switched from front to backlit parkour performers, the camera quickly adjusted. There were times where it threw someone into silhouette, but its exposure adjustments were fast and sure.
Since DJI handed me the camera with only the briefest instructional walkthrough and no handbook, I had to figure how to use Osmo Action on my own. It went pretty well. I tended to use the instant record button a lot, with the mode switch a close second. It took me a little while to figure out that you have to press the mode switch once to access the quick switch and then again to choose the mode you want.
Swiping up from the bottom of the screen to adjust recording quality was easy enough. The adjustments are pretty simple so you can make fast changes without getting lost in the technical weeds.
I shot a lot of 240 fps slo-mo video, which looked amazing, a bunch of 4K, and 1080p normal speed video. Photos is one of the QuickSwitch options, though if you plan on taking selfies, you’ll want to use the front screen. With enough light, the camera takes decent, ultra-wide, 12MP photos, and you can choose to shoot in JPEG or JPEG+RAW. There was some notable graininess in low light.
You can double tap the large screen with two fingers to instantly switch to the front-facing screen, though this was a move that I never quite mastered. Later I used that mode and the quick record button to take a few selfies. The front screen is small, which means it’s pretty hard to make out even your own face on the screen. It was, however, easy enough to read the QuickSwitch options, and I toggled through them to get to “Photo.”
Virtually all my Osmo Action footage looked smooth as butter thanks to the integrated Rock Steady electronic image stabilization technology. Unlike optical image stabilization, which allows the lens to float free from the motion of the camera, Rock Steady uses software and some very clever cropping to ensure that the video is smooth even if your hand or mountain bike isn’t.
It takes approximately 88 minutes to recharge the battery via a USB-C port. (The port is hidden next to the microSD card slot under a sliding panel). Battery life is rated to just under 2 hours per charge, which pretty much matched my experience.
Wireless connectivity is achieved via DJI’s new Mimo App. It allows you to stream video directly from the camera to the phone. Unfortunately, I had trouble connecting my Osmo Action to my phones. DJI did warn me that the software build on my preview device wasn’t final. My guess is a quick firmware and app update will solve this.
In building the Osmo Action, DJI clearly applied the same care as it did with its industry-leading drones and the Osmo Pocket ultra-portable gimbal. The selfie-screen is a nice extra, even if, at a certain distance, you can barely tell what you’re looking at.

Silicon Valley Is Not a Fad
The region was a hub for innovation long before tech bros showed up
In the late 2000s, at a party in the Mission District of San Francisco, I was discussing Silicon Valley with a guy who worked for a technology company. When I revealed that I lived in Mountain View, he asked me where that was.
A few years prior, I once collected guests from San Francisco International Airport and drove them south on the 101 freeway to Mountain View. The 101 is a sea of blacktop flanked by walls of concrete. “This is Silicon Valley!” I said proudly. “But where is everything?” my guests asked, confused. Silicon Valley doesn’t have the sights of San Francisco: no Golden Gate Bridge, no Palace of Fine Arts, no Presidio, usually not even a view of the bay. Silicon Valley is just one big, very spread out office park embedded in the sprawling suburbia of greater San Jose.
If you hunt for them, you might find the nondescript office complexes of companies like Intel, Google, Facebook, and Cisco Systems. In the last few years, companies have started to construct interesting buildings, like Apple Park (the doughnut), or Nvidia Endeavor, the spaceship-like, triangle-themed building that I currently work in.
Mountain View is in the northern part of Santa Clara County, in the San Francisco South Bay, right in the middle of what has historically been known as Silicon Valley. William Shockley opened Shockley Semiconductor Laboratory there in the mid-1950s. In 1957, eight employees left Shockley to start a semiconductor division of Fairchild Camera and Instrument in Sunnyvale, the city immediately south of Mountain View. This division became Fairchild Semiconductor, the company that developed the first silicon integrated circuit in 1960. Gordon E. Moore and Robert Noyce left Fairchild Semiconductor to start Intel in Mountain View in 1968. Intel is now based in Santa Clara, the city immediately south of Sunnyvale.
Google is currently headquartered in Mountain View, but started out in 1998 in Menlo Park, which is two cities north of Mountain View. Facebook’s headquarters are in Menlo Park, and even though it was technically founded in Cambridge, Massachusetts, it received its first round of funding after moving to Palo Alto in 2004. Palo Alto is sandwiched between Menlo Park to its immediate north and Mountain View to its immediate south. To the west of Palo Alto is the city of Stanford, the home of Stanford University, where many founders of Silicon Valley companies studied. For example, after graduating from Stanford University with degrees in electrical engineering, Bill Hewlett and David Packard started Hewlett-Packard in a Palo Alto garage in 1938. Larry Page and Sergey Brin were PhD students at Stanford when they founded Google.
Mountain View is one in a string of cities running down the peninsula, from Redwood City, to Menlo Park, to Palo Alto, to Mountain View, to Sunnyvale, to Santa Clara, and, finally, to San Jose. Adjacent to these cities, and nestled closer to the Santa Cruz mountains, are Woodside, Stanford, Los Altos, Cupertino, Campbell, and Los Gatos. Apple was founded in Los Altos and is now headquartered in Cupertino.
So that’s where Mountain View is: in Silicon Valley, in the South Bay, which is part of the San Francisco Bay Area.

Review: The OnePlus 7 Pro Hits the Android Sweet Spot
It’s not the best device on the market, but the price and performance is right

NSFW Videos Are the New Sex Ed for Adults
Startups are using explicit footage to improve our understanding of our bodies

Let’s Not Put the Government in Charge of Moderating Facebook
Social platforms are not good at policing speech, but Washington would be even worse
Facebook co-founder Chris Hughes’ New York Times op-ed last week calling for his former company to be broken up sparked responses from ex-Facebook employees (some in favor of the idea, some against it), Democratic presidential candidates (some in favor, some against), and Facebook itself (definitely against). Politico called the question of a Facebook breakup “a new litmus test” for White House aspirants.

How Digital Virtual Assistants Like Alexa Amplify Sexism
Without more balanced sources of data, A.I. is doomed to reinforce damaging social prejudice

An Algorithm May Decide Who Gets Suicide Prevention

Juul’s Upcoming Smart Device Could Pose a Major Privacy Risk
Experts are already sounding the alarm over concerns that insurers and employers could get access to data about e-cigarette use

Why VPNs Are Suddenly Everywhere, and How to Pick the Best One
Is a ‘private’ internet connection really worth it?
If you’ve listened to a podcast lately, you might have noticed that the ads for Stamps.com and internet-order mattresses have been superseded by endless advertisements for virtual private networks (VPNs), all explaining how important it is to get a secure connection of your own.
VPN companies promise to help protect you, but how can you know which of the many available services are trustworthy? And why the heck do you suddenly need one?
First, the reason there are so many ads is that running a VPN can be a highly profitable business. All it takes is setting up a bunch of servers, in different locations, which are shared across hundreds of users and cost a few hundred dollars to operate. Then just sit back and watch the subscription fees roll in.
But doing a VPN right isn’t so easy.
Some quick background: You might already be familiar with a VPN if you’ve worked in a corporate job. A company’s VPN will usually allow you to remotely connect to the tools you use for your job as if you were sitting in your seat at the office.
Think of connecting to a VPN like teleporting from one internet connection to another. When I’m on a VPN, instead of connecting to Medium.com as Owen in Amsterdam, it looks like I’m Owen from New York or Owen from Toronto. A VPN makes it appear, to anyone who’s observing, that you’re accessing the internet from another computer, not the one in front of you.

Sex With Robots Was Never the Point
Why are we so obsessed with screwing machines? Notable sci-fi writers weigh in.

Imagining New Institutions for the Internet Age
A sci-fi novelist on what he learned writing a trilogy of speculative novels that extrapolate how feeds shape our lives, politics, and future

Is Your Phone Killing You? The Answer’s Unclear
Experts respond with skepticism to a recent New York Times story
Last week, the New York Times published a provocative Well piece about smartphones and death that laid out some fascinating points, but it probably belonged in the Opinion section. The article, packaged with the headline “Putting Down Your Phone May Help You Live Longer,” draws on recent research to suggest that smartphone use causes a spike in the stress hormone cortisol, perhaps leading to a chronic problem that ultimately shortens one’s life span.
Sure, this could be true. Chronic stress is associated with serious health problems, “including depression, obesity, metabolic syndrome, Type 2 diabetes, fertility issues, high blood pressure, heart attack, dementia and stroke,” as the article notes. But right now, we simply don’t have the research to justify freaking people out about their smartphones. We’re missing crucial information that makes a connection between phone use and chronic stress clear.
I talked to several scientists for this story, most of whom study how people are affected by internet use. All of them, to varying degrees, expressed questions and in some cases concerns about the Times piece.
“I don’t think anyone can prove that phone use causes stress,” says Tamara Afifi, a professor of interpersonal health communication at the University of California, Santa Barbara, and an author of one of the studies quoted in the Times piece. “There is indeed a positive correlation. But I think we need more research to prove causation, at least for chronic stress.”
“The author makes a very strong claim, a rather headline-grabbing claim, that as a scientist I immediately rolled my eyes at,” says Tracy Dennis-Tiwary, a psychology professor and a co-director of the Stress, Anxiety, and Resilience Research Center at Hunter College who has written about this topic before. “A lot of this work can be taken out of context, because a lot of it uses very extreme examples of either chronic stress exposure or extreme phone addiction.”
One such study, upon which the New York Times piece relies, looked at the impact of smartphone use and withdrawals. It found that compared with healthy controls, subjects with “excessive smartphone use” have less ability to regulate their impulses and control their emotions and experienced higher secretions of the stress hormone cortisol when “withdrawing” from internet use, including from their smartphones. And the study focuses on teens who are already described as using their smartphones in an unhealthy and excessive manner. Smartphone addiction varies worldwide but is estimated to top out at 38%, depending on the definition used; while that’s not an insignificant number, it’s not a majority, either, meaning that the study’s results don’t necessarily apply to everyone.
Dennis-Tiwary says she found the study important but that the results are correlative, not causal. “It could be that these are kids who are going around not being able to regulate their drives and their impulses as well, and they’re the types who get sucked into cellphone use and social media use,” she says. She also notes that the withdrawal symptoms make sense, because anyone who’s experiencing withdrawals is experiencing stress as well.
“It seems fairly sensationalistic,” says Jon Elhai, a professor of psychology and psychiatry at the University of Toledo who has studied internet addiction. Like Dennis-Tiwary, he pointed out that it’s difficult to make a causal inference from the research we have so far. “Most of the research suggests that it’s the people who start off with mental health problems, those who are the ones who, as a consequence of having mental health problems, the effect is that they end up using their phones more.”
Elhai adds that while it is certainly possible that phone use could cause stress—and there’s some evidence to suggest that it does—“it’s a cycle, and people who are more stressed out to begin with, they, as a result of their stress, tend to alleviate their stress by using their phones, and then that causes more stress.”

If Bats Perish, Where Does That Leave Us?
Scientists scramble as a fatal fungus finally reaches a major bat sanctuary

The Ecological Problem With Octopus Farming
Startups are building land-based octopus farms. Critics argue they’re harming the animals.

Warning Signs That a Bubble Is About to Burst
You don’t need a Nobel to see the similarities between 1999 and 2019

Why Angry Taylor Swift Fans Lash Out Online

Do Platforms Like Grindr Need to Do More to Keep LGBT+ Users Safe?
Queer people in hostile countries depend on such apps as a lifeline to their community, but they may be more vulnerable than they know

A Disaster Is Unfolding in Consumer Tech
Samsung’s Galaxy Fold is just the tip of the iceberg

Can Fancy New Graphics Tech Save Burned-Out Game Developers?
Ray tracing looks great, and it could alleviate crunch if companies let it
Real-time ray tracing, the next big innovation in gaming graphics, could eventually make your games look more like the CGI you’re used to seeing in movies. Companies like Nvidia are touting it as a revolution in computer graphics, but its biggest benefit may be easing the burden on the overworked game developers trapped under perpetual crunch time today.
Ray tracing is a powerful technique in computer graphics that simulates the way real-world objects should look. The software casts virtual rays of light and traces (get it?) the path from the light source to the camera, just like light works in real life. In the same way light from a lamp bounces off the book you’re reading and into your eyes, ray tracing blasts CGI objects with rays and captures them in a virtual camera.
This enables the program to intuitively cast natural shadows, light objects properly, and create fast and easy reflections. If a lot of rays hit an object, the object is brighter. If an object blocks a light source, it casts a shadow. Where the old method was like tediously drawing an animated movie, ray tracing is more like shooting a live-action movie. You can hang the virtual lights, and it all just looks right.
The problem is that ray tracing takes a lot of processing power. Until recently, rendering even a single frame with ray tracing on a typical computer could take hours. That’s fine when you’re making a movie like Toy Story 4 and have huge server farms at your disposal. It’s less feasible for video games that have to generate 30 (or 60) frames every second.
Instead, video games traditionally use a technique called rasterization that creates a 2D image of a scene from the camera’s perspective. Then, shaders are applied to that image to approximate what light, shadows, reflections, and other details should look like. Think of it like trying to paint a circle that looks like a ball. A good artist might be able to get close, but nothing will ever be as accurate or as easy as taking a photograph of a ball.
The innovation in “real-time ray tracing,” therefore, isn’t necessarily the ray tracing part—it’s “real-time.” Nvidia currently has a few graphics cards on the market capable of real-time ray tracing, and Sony says its next gaming console will support the feature as well, whenever it comes out. It’s likely Microsoft’s Xbox will eventually follow suit. A decade or so from now, real-time ray tracing will be commonplace, allowing developers to create realistic graphics without all the tedious workarounds.
That future can’t come fast enough for overworked game developers.

New Apple TV App Finally Kills the Middle Man
Finally, the frictionless peak-TV experience we’ve always wanted

Apple’s App Crackdown Spells Trouble for Families With Autistic Children
For special needs families, Apple’s own Screen Time feature just doesn’t cut it

The Socialist Case for Automating Our Jobs Away
Let robots do the drudge work. Give workers a basic income.
For decades, you’ve been told to fear automation. Robots are stealing factory jobs; self-checkouts are gutting the service sector; artificial intelligence will replace even the most skilled laborers with whip-smart algorithms. The economy will grow, but you’ll be out of work.
Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez thinks it doesn’t have to be that way. “We should be excited about automation,” Ocasio-Cortez, a Democratic Socialist and one of the sponsors of the Green New Deal, told an audience at the South by Southwest conference in March. “The reason we’re not excited by it is because we live in a society where if you don’t have a job, you are left to die. And that is, at its core, our problem.”

What the Hell Happened to Daenerys?
‘Game of Thrones’ has turned the most compassionate queen in Westeros into another tyrant
For years, Daenerys Stormborn, first of her name, mother of dragons, breaker of chains, and rightful queen of the seven kingdoms, has been the ruler we’ve been hoping would win the Iron Throne. Her goal has been to “break the wheel,” the cycle of oppression where the rich and powerful continually vie for rule, always at the expense of the common people. But now Daenerys is as ready to kill those common people in order to gain her throne as Cersei Lannister has been. It’s a shocking, heartbreaking change in one of Game of Thrones’ most beloved characters… and it’s also kind of perfect, too.

‘I Love Billionaires’: Author Ben Mezrich on the Winklevoss Twins and Writing the Cryptocurrency Narrative
In ‘Bitcoin Billionaires,’ Mezrich reinvents the Winklevoss twins as savvy tech investors

Don’t Use a VPN at Home
Despite what VPN commercials tell you, there’s really no reason to use a VPN at home
Public Wi-Fi, especially hotspots without passwords (like at cafés and malls), are where you should always be using a VPN. When your device communicates with a Wi-Fi hotspot, there isn’t a beam of radio waves connecting you to the router. Instead, the router and your device blast signals in every direction with the hope that the signal will eventually reach the router’s antenna.
Of course, this works most of the time, because you’re reading this post right now. Even in the event that a few packets don’t find their way, TCP has you covered. TCP is an internet protocol that ensures each end of the connection receives all the packets sent to it. Should a packet not arrive, it is sent again until delivery is complete.
How does this relate to VPNs? Well, because the signals are being sent in every direction, a hacker with the proper equipment, which actually isn’t too expensive, can collect those packets without you or the router noticing. Generally, password-protected Wi-Fi utilizes encryption that ensures what the hackers pick up is a jumbled and useless mess that can’t be reassembled. However, public Wi-Fi is often not password protected, meaning you don’t benefit from encryption. A VPN makes up for that by providing its own form of encryption that protects against snooping.
Not only does a VPN provide its own encryption, which prevents hackers from knowing what you’re doing online, they often contain another layer of defense. Many modern VPNs will ensure that the data being sent is not only received, but also received without being tampered with. Even in the event that someone attempts to inject unwanted data into a packet, the VPN should detect it and protect you from that kind of attack.
I’m willing to bet that your home Wi-Fi is protected by a password. Even if you’re unaware of the security benefits, having a password simply prevents people from using up your bandwidth. Modern routers make setting up and updating the password a relatively easy process, with the hardest part being updating the passwords on all your devices.
Since you most likely have a password set up for your Wi-Fi network, you’re getting the protection the encryption offers. If a hacker is sitting right outside your house collecting every single packet your device sends, there’s nothing they can do with it. This only works if the hacker can’t guess your password, however, so be sure to use a secure one.
One argument for using a VPN at home is if you don’t trust your ISP. That may be because you think the company is spying on you and selling your data, or it’s taking advantage of the lack of net neutrality and blocking websites unless you pay extra. Either way, a VPN is the perfect solution, right?
Well, not really. Remember, all a VPN does is securely tunnel your traffic to a server, after which there is no extra layer of encryption protecting you. Basically, using a VPN pushes the risk down the line from your home ISP to the VPN provider’s ISP.

Your Dirty AirPods Are Grosser Than You Think

The Global Attention Span Is Getting Shorter
This is the consequence of information overflow

How Satan Was Disappeared From Twitter

Ian McEwan on His New Novel and Ethics in the Age of A.I.
When we program morality into robots, are we doomed to disappoint them with our very human ethical inconsistency?

The Unbelievable Demand for Cybersecurity Workers
By 2021, there will be roughly 3.5 million unfilled cybersecurity jobs across the globe

A Flawed FAA Drone App Risks Midair Collisions
Air ambulances across the U.S. are under increasing threat from consumer drones, and a safety app that omits some heliports isn’t helping

The End of App Stores Is Rapidly Approaching
Progressive web apps may soon free you from Google Play and the iOS App Store

Apple Doesn’t Need a Monopoly to Lock You Into Your iPhone
iMessage is still the stickiest part of iOS

Tech Events Aren’t Fun Anymore
Google I/O brought some updates but no “gee whiz” moments

How YouTubers Could Save Sex Ed
Channels like Queer Kid Stuff offer much-needed resources for young people
Even back in college, Lindsay Amer knew what their calling in life was. They wanted to use theater and storytelling to help kids understand the basics of queer issues and better understand what words like “gay” actually mean, while giving young people a space to see themselves and feel more comfortable with their identities.
As a queer person with a background in creating and directing theater for young audiences, as well as a degree in gender studies, Amer felt like this kind of work was the perfect fit for their skill set. But as they set off on their path, they ran into a few stumbling blocks. Theater spaces and schools were anxious about booking a performance that some might deem controversial. Even when Amer did manage to get a gig, their message was naturally limited to the audience in the room.
Feeling frustrated, Amer started wondering if there might be another way to get their message out into the world. And then inspiration struck. “I was off in London, feeling homesick, watching a lot of American queer YouTubers,” Amer says. “And I realized YouTube was this free, publicly accessible space that kids were in.”
Most conversations around kids, sex, and the internet focus on the potential negatives. There’s been a lot of hand-wringing about the way pornography supposedly warps young minds. Meanwhile, even supposedly youth-friendly apps like YouTube Kids have been accused of exposing children to explicit content, to say nothing of the bizarre, algorithmically generated junk that floats around there or the disturbing conspiracy theories that bubble up on the larger platform.
Still, the proliferation of harmful content arguably underscores the need to balance these incredibly popular platforms with high-quality material. For educators hoping to pioneer a new kind of youth sex education, one that challenges our ideas of what topics are age appropriate and safe for kids, the internet feels more like a land of opportunity.

America’s Favorite Door-Locking App Has a Data Privacy Problem
Great for landlords. Not so great for you.

Language Is the Latest Weapon Against the Climate Emergency
A former ‘Guardian’ journalist on how revisions to the British paper’s style guide can alter our view of the climate crisis
The language of our impending environmental disaster is changing. In a note to staff, the Guardian on Friday announced it was responding to increasing concern about climate change by calling it the “climate emergency” instead.
The email, as tweeted by BuzzFeed reporter Mark Di Stefano, reads: “Use climate emergency, crisis, or breakdown instead of climate change. Use global heating instead of global warming… Use climate science denier or climate denier instead of climate skeptic.” The memo states that the aim is to “accurately reflect the phenomena they describe,” and points out that the term climate change “sounds rather passive and gentle when what scientists are talking about is a catastrophe for humanity.”

Oculus Quest Is VR for Normal People
The $399 headset is worth the splurge

The Racist Origins of America’s Tech Industry

Don’t Blame the Designers for Your Digital Addiction
So-called dopamine hacking is more sales pitch than science. What matters isn’t how our attention is captured, but what we pay attention to.

The “Great Dying” Has Begun. Only Transforming the Economy Can Stop It.
In their careful way, scientists are calling for an end to capitalism as we know it

Facebook’s Plan to Fuse Its Messaging Apps Is Not About Your Privacy
Just follow the money

Keeping Virtual Reality Environments Harassment-Free

The Tyranny of Convenience
Welcome to the future we all chose, but that nobody seems to want

The Rebellion Against China’s 996 Culture
Workers will no longer tolerate the punishing schedules of technology giants

The Dawn of the Reliance Economy
Your attention was never the endgame

A Farewell to ‘Gotham,’ Which Defied Everything Superhero Entertainment Is Supposed to Be
Most comic book shows cater to hardcore fans. But ‘Gotham’ went its own way.

Social Media Spoilers Won’t Ruin ‘Avengers’ (or Any Other Movie)
They might actually help you like it more

Should Athletes Be Allowed to Enhance Their Genes?
So-called gene doping is banned in sports, but some philosophers argue that it’s the way of the future

5G Could Finally Herald the Era of Wireless Surgery
The network’s low latency may finally allow remote operations

How Big Printer Is Trying to Crush the Counterfeit Ink Trade
That great deal you found on Amazon may have a dark side

NASA’s Marsquake Recording Joins the Soundtrack of the Cosmos
Space is far from silent, and we can learn a lot if we know how to listen

How Sri Lanka Shut Social Media Out of the Country
And why such censorship efforts usually backfire

The Avengers Messed Up
How our favorite superheroes ruined the world they meant to save

We Don’t Need Social Media
The push to regulate or break up Facebook ignores the fact that its services do more harm than good
In an op-ed in the New York Times last week, Facebook co-founder Chris Hughes laid out an argument for dismantling the social media behemoth, splitting it up via antitrust legislation, and (he hopes) paving the way for what he describes as a new age of innovation and competition.

Why AirPods—and Earbuds Like Them—Are Especially Bad for Your Hearing
It’s all about the fit and the background noise

It’s Time for Tech Companies to Adopt a ‘Do No Harm’ Approach
Founders and investors need a new code of ethics
Co-authored with Carrie Barron, MD, and Nicco Mele

The Home of the Future Could Be Powered by Microbes
An ecological vision of architecture promises to provide electricity by integrating living systems into the walls of our homes

How to Prevent the Next 737 Max Disaster
As technology becomes more complex, so must troubleshooting

The Glaring Flaws We Need to Fix in the Internet of Things
Supposedly helpful appliances are failing us all

Why ‘Anonymized Data’ Isn’t So Anonymous
Cleaning data of ‘personally identifying information’ is harder than you might think

A Highly Scientific Theory About Rey’s Origins in ‘Rise of Skywalker’
It involves the Emperor, clones, and highly questionable bioethics

The Problem With Instagram’s Plan to Reduce ‘Sexually Suggestive’ Content
It’s sexist

Privacy Is the New Digital Divide

Apple vs. Facebook Enters a New Era
With two pivots on the horizon, here’s what you should know

Samsung’s Galaxy Fold Is a New Path Forward for Smartphones
Damn you, Galaxy Fold, don’t make me want you

Post-Theranos, Startups Are Still Out for Blood
‘Hubris is very dangerous’: How blood diagnostic companies are distancing themselves from Theranos’ fraud charges

Snapchat Is the Next Evolution in Photography
The company’s Landmarkers feature seamlessly melds the real and the imagined
Snapchat is back, and it’s doing just fine. That’s the message the company wanted to get across when it held a flashy event on April 4 in Los Angeles, unveiling a ton of new and quirky ideas designed to lure users back to its app.
The presentation could have been mistaken at first for a yellow-tinted Apple event, but the company showed off a bunch of creative new ideas, from an in-app gaming platform to Snap stories coming to outside apps like Tinder. But the standout was a new feature called Landmarkers, which allows you to remix the world around you with augmented reality filters in real time.
If you’re visiting a famous landmark, like the Eiffel Tower, tapping and holding within the camera will reveal special new filters. Tap a filter, and Snapchat will layer another reality on top of it, seamlessly blending the real and virtual worlds together. The demo teased the Eiffel Tower vomiting rainbows, New York’s Flatiron Building covered in 3D pizza, and other psychedelic possibilities like buildings growing eyes and long necks.

What’s on Your Home Screen, Jeremy Burge?
The Emojipedia founder on rude weather apps and living on a boat

A Male Birth Control Pill Won’t Change Society
Science is close to giving us effective male contraceptive, but it won’t matter unless men are willing to use it

Machine Learning Widens the Gap Between Knowledge and Understanding
And gives us the tools for our next evolutionary step

More Books on Climate Change Won’t Help Us Now
Bill McKibben on his new book, the need for direct action on climate change, and the threats of A.I.

Ethics Boards Won’t Save Big Tech
Tech companies need more than advisory boards if they want to create ethical products and services

The Dawn of the Cyborg Journalist
As A.I. increasingly infiltrates journalism, the reporting and consumption of news will change forever

Israel’s Silent Cyberpower Is Reshaping the Middle East
As its cyber-espionage sector continues to grow, Israel is starting to face questions about who its technology is empowering

Meet the People Who Still Have AOL Email Addresses

Could Your Therapist Be Replaced with an App?
While the field of internet cognitive behavioral therapy holds a lot of promise, the best mental health care still requires a human touch

Deciding on Geoengineering Will Be Harder Than Doing It
A diplomatic breakdown exposes geopolitical fractures over a problematic fix for climate change

Who Loses When Tech Unicorns Don’t Make a Profit?
Gig workers shouldn’t have to suffer in the quest for more market share

Your Itchy Dog May Need a Poop Pill
Just like their owners, cats and dogs are becoming more allergic to their environments

Unintended Consequences in Silicon Valley
The tech industry has more to learn about its unforeseen effects on our daily lives

How Apple Missed Its Chance to Fix Credit Cards
The ‘Everything Card’ could have been the ‘Everyone Card’

This Is How It Feels to Go Viral on Twitter

Online Conspiracy Theories Start With the Young
Middle school kids love watching videos about supposed celebrity secrets. But does this set them up to be radicalized by more dangerous ideas?

Twitter’s Suspension Bots Are Out of Control
An innocent account gets caught up in a bot purge, with no explanation why
WinObs was gone. Snapped away like a Thanos victim with no forwarding address. My long-time Twitter pal Rich Hay’s Twitter account was gray, though not quite dust.
Hay and I met nearly a decade ago at an early NASA Tweetup to celebrate and witness one of the last Space Shuttle launches. We bonded over our love of space and, later, a somewhat shared Windows expertise. Hay’s operating system insights are levels above mine—he’s a member of the Windows Insider program, Microsoft’s open-software testing program—but as someone who covers the platform, I appreciated the knowledge he brought to the topic on his website Windows Observer and the associated Twitter account WinObs.
Hay’s name had come up in association with a project I was working on, so I decided to contact him on Twitter. And that’s when I discovered that WinObs—an 11-year-old account with 22,000 followers, 500,000+ tweets, and nothing but good, clean, techy content—had been suspended.

What if the End of ‘Game of Thrones’ Is Terrible?
Problems in the show’s last season bode ill for its grand finale

Apple News+ Is Damn Near Too Much of a Good Thing
It’s easy to get lost inside News+

Researchers Are Translating Brain Activity Into Speech
It could lead to a computer-generated speaking tool for the speech impaired

The Great Smartphone Experiment
If smartphones are a great big unknown, why are we so casual about introducing them to our kids?

The Efficiency Delusion
Optimizing how we live, work, and play is embedded deep in the psyche of coders and American culture. But how much efficiency is too much?
Co-authored with Clive Thompson
This year began with the writer David Pogue identifying six important lessons that he’s learned from observing how tech companies behave. One of them is this: “Frictionless always wins.”

Inside the Biotech Startup That Wants to Extend Your Life
Scientist David Sinclair believes too many of us end up in old age as “the living dead.” He’s searching for drugs that can turn back the clock on aging—if regulators let him.

The Gig Economy’s Unhappy Middle Class
With Lyft and Uber going public, we need to face facts about their business model

A Year in Space Changed an Astronaut’s Genes

The Next Wellness Trend Should Be Google Spreadsheets
How focused planning—and color-coded rows and columns—can make stress melt away

Landlord 2.0: Tech’s New Rentier Capitalism
By selling us hardware but retaining ownership of software and data, tech companies are treating users like digital tenants

Your Smartphone Apps Are Filled With Trackers You Know Nothing About
The privacy crisis Apple and Google need to fix—now

Here’s What Brain-Stimulating Memory Enhancement Feels Like
Scientists found that electrical brain stimulation improved memory among older adults in a recent study. I went to the lab to try it out myself.

‘The Walking Dead’ Is Weird as Hell and Worth Streaming Again
Ratings have dropped, but with a new showrunner and fresh foes, the zombies are worth revisiting

No One Knows How Dangerous Boeing’s 737 Max Actually Is
A faulty automated system leaves lingering questions

Why Google+ Failed
Google Plus didn’t fail because Facebook is invulnerable. It failed because of deep flaws embedded in it from the very start.

Sexual Health Apps Can’t Replace Real Sex Talk
What a new service that purports to confirm users are taking HIV prevention medication gets wrong about relationships

Are We at Risk for a Space Arms Race?
The Pentagon’s space-based missile defense plans could escalate tensions with rival space powers

Scientists Release the First Image of a Massive Black Hole
Here’s how they did it

The Human Zeal for Adventure Has a Genetic Basis
A new study shows that a gene identified in fruit flies may help explain why some of us take risks—and some stay at home

From Like Buttons to Message Bubbles: The UX Designs You Can’t Use
Designing a new user interface in 2019 is harder than you think
You’re in the business of selling pizza. Everyone loves pizza. It’s fast and easy. The demand is high. It’s the classic American staple. But you’ve got a ton of competitors, marketing is tougher than you thought, rent is getting higher, the app designs are stale, every week is a 52-week low, and it’s getting harder to differentiate—you know, the typical stuff. So, you think to yourself, “I need to do something nobody has ever done before. Something new, something progressive.” You start brainstorming ideas and come up with a brilliant one that sounds something like, “So then you could view the pizza details and swipe right if you like it and swipe left if you don’t. Kind of like Tinder, but for pizza!”
Yeah, no. You cannot design something like that, because Tinder has a patent on the interaction of swiping right to like and left to dislike. “Okay, okay, fine,” you say to yourself. “That is the hallmark of its entire app, so then just get rid of the swipe feature, and we’ll make a minimum viable product (MVP) solution of just having a ‘like’ and ‘dislike’ button at the bottom.” Tough luck, kid. Tinder has a patent on that, too.
Designers are always looking at how other companies solve similar design challenges and use them as inspiration for ideas. It’s a fun (and sometimes not so fun) process that can even cause others to criticize you for not doing enough research if you don’t look at a competitor’s solutions. For designers and nondesigners alike, it’s important to understand which designs are off-limits for use as inspiration. Companies take a lot of time to think up product-defining UI elements, so it makes sense that they don’t want others copying something they’ve spent a lot of energy creating. These UI features can be as detailed as Apple’s iPhone X home-button-less navigation, for which it filed a giant patent that’s still in review, or as small as Facebook’s “like” icon.
It can take one to two years for design patents and up to five years for utility patents.
The ballpark overall cost for a design patent is $2,000 to $3,000. Unlike other types of patents, yearly maintenance fees are not required. If you’re a big company, this is pretty cheap.
All of the patents listed in this article last about 15 years.
Conveniently, you can find them on Google Patents, which indexes them from more than 100 patent offices around the world. You can search by type, keywords, or company, because patents are all public material. If you ever have the time, it’s a good idea to look through patents once in a while.
According to UpCounsel, “the only section in a patent that is legally enforceable” is written in the claim, which is limited to one sentence. For non-design patents, it makes sense to hit up the claims section first. In design patents, that one sentence is often vague and reads something like, “The ornamental design for a display panel of a programmed computer system with a graphical user interface, as shown and described,” which is not very helpful. Therefore, the parts to pay attention to are the solid lines in the attached drawings. The dotted lines are just supporting details to show you what environment it appears in, like if it’s mobile or desktop. The dotted lines can also be contextual, which helps you know, for example, that something is scrolled or if it specifically appears in a messaging app. The title will also tell you if the patented item is an animation or a graphical interface. Unfortunately, patents usually don’t include a description of how the thing is supposed to work—sometimes a bit of guessing is involved.
You can patent:
You cannot patent:
Sometimes you can find a company’s hidden plans while looking at patents. I found a couple of blueprints for designs that are not yet in a product (if it ever does at all). Which makes sense, because the insurance for a patent lasting 15 years costs less than one year of auto insurance. To a company, that’s essentially free insurance—and if it finds an opportunity to sue someone for copying its designs, that’s free money. Samsung is probably well aware of this: In 2018, the company held 61,608 active patent families—34% more than second-place Canon, which held 34,905 patent families. Companies will patent any half-decent idea it legally can, with the full expectation that many of those ideas won’t ever make it to production—but might just pay off in litigation.

How Hedgehogs Became Instagram’s Most Miserable Celebrities
Notoriously shy and antisocial, pet hedgehogs have developed big followings online

The Artificial Womb Moves Forward
Researchers successfully nurture extremely preterm lamb fetuses outside a natural womb
If you live for about 80 years, your nine months in the womb will represent less than 1% of your time on Earth. But those nine months represent a crucial period for growth and development.

The Machine Behind Twitter’s Strangest Promoted Tweets
It costs $99, and we tried it

How Mindless Phone Use Ruins Your Relationships
Whether you’re at work, on a date, or with the family, put that thing away every now and then

What’s on Your Home Screen, Kyle Wiens?
The iFixit co-founder discusses his screen-off approach to smartphones

What’s on Your Home Screen, Taylor Lorenz?
Talking bespoke apps and ‘moon playlists’ with the tech journalist and meme whisperer

When the Web Loses Its Memory
As sites like Tumblr perform mass purges, archivists are fighting a losing battle to save disappearing parts of the internet

Apple’s New Strategy Erodes ‘Screen Time’
With a new focus on services, Apple abandons the pretense that you should look away

Google Could Learn a Lot About You From Its New Gaming Platform
Stadia sounds great, but don’t forget that Google is a research company

How Health Apps Let Women Down
Women have many reasons for tracking their health, but the apps that they turn to are often disappointing

Social Media Is Making Us Numb to Tragedy
Is the collective horror of the world’s tragedies diminishing the weight of each individual crisis?
In 1999, two teenagers killed 13 people and injured 24 others in what was the third most closely followed piece of news in the entire decade. At the time, it was the deadliest school shooting in U.S. history and it utterly captured the nation’s attention. Flash forward to 2018 where there were three attacks unsettlingly similar to Columbine:
January 23: two people were killed and 15 more were injured at Marshall County High School in Benton, Kentucky.
February 14: 17 people were killed and 17 more were injured at Marjory Stoneman Douglas High School in Parkland, Florida.
May 18: 10 people were killed and 13 more were injured at Santa Fe High School in Santa Fe, Texas.

Custom VR Experiences Are Helping Kids Cope With Pain
Hospitals are leaning on the distracting power of immersive technology

The Gig Economy Makes Workers Vulnerable to Sexual Harassment
Clients have a good idea of who they’re hiring or letting into their homes, but workers don’t have the same luxury

Who Owns Your Health Data?
Companies are denying people access to their own data as security risks run rampant

An Open Letter to Uber: We Need to Do Right By Our Drivers
Signed by an employee of Uber

A New Dating App Thinks Video Chats Will Help Prevent Assault
There’s just one big problem
In I/O, columnist Lux Alptraum explores how technology intersects with sexuality and relationships. I/O will embrace the uncertainty of our future and help us craft a better tomorrow, together.

AirPods 2, Reviewed
A great product gets better with hands-free Siri

The Engineer Using A.I. to Read Your Feelings
Rosalind Picard wants to build technology that understands human emotion

We Still Have a Ton of Questions About Apple’s ‘Services’ Pivot
A very long event was short on concrete details

Sex and the Singularity
We talk about sex the way we talk about the future. That’s a problem.

What It’s Like Using the Internet When You Have OCD
’When I’m not on [Twitter]… I have literal heart palpitations’

How Fake Meat Could Save the Planet

Closing Wikipedia’s Gender Gap
An interview with Wikipedia editor Rosie Stephenson-Goodknight

What Apple Needs for TV+ to Succeed
A-list talent alone won’t cut it

How Neurofeedback Is Revolutionizing Stress Management
We may be able to train ourselves to control brain activity

The Anxiety of Nerd FOMO
This golden age of nerd pop culture can be an exquisite torture for actual nerds
It’s very likely first among first world problems, but there’s just too much good entertainment out there. It’s an actual dilemma, especially for geeks. Because even though we’re living in a golden age of nerd entertainment, the likes of which we never could have dreamed about as kids and teens, all that beautiful content is stressing us out.

Amazon Marketplace Seller: ‘One Mistake is Enough to Kill Your Career’
Selling on the Marketplace can leave vendors feeling like ‘indentured servants.’

How to Parent in the Age of Cyberbullying, Trolls, and Momo
Even with the best intentions in the world, we can’t monitor everything

Amazon TV Director: Networks Should Scare You More Than Amazon
Amazon is spending billions to find its Game of Thrones moment

Forget ‘Dumbo’: It’s Time for Disney to Remake ‘Fantasia’
The only Disney classic that could really use a modern update

Google’s Stadia Could Take Video Games Out of Your Hands
The new streaming service could make owning a video game a thing of the past

Meet the People Coding Our World
An interview with Clive Thompson, author of the great new book ‘Coders’

Is Software Eating the World?
We need to ask whether our technological progress is antagonistic to the place that we call home

The Internet’s Phone Book Is Broken
And hackers are having a field day

The Future of A.I. Isn’t Quite Human
On the red carpet or the esports arena, the next generation of celebrities could be artificial

The Trump Administration’s New Facebook Lawsuit Is a Trojan Horse
A former attorney at Facebook explains

I Can’t Live Without: Calm
Why the blue meditation app works so well
Like any true Texan, I got hooked by Matthew McConaughey.
“How often do we really feel what’s happening within and around us?” he asks in that all too familiar drawl, his words spaced a little too far apart. The story he tells is called “Wonder,” and it’s one you aren’t supposed to finish. This is a story meant to put you to sleep, a bedtime story for adults. It’s featured on the homepage of the first billion-dollar wellness app: Calm.

The Digital Asymmetry of the Christchurch Shootings

Is Social Media the New Smoking?
We can no longer deny the significant dark side of social media

The Case Against Breaking Up Big Tech
Elizabeth Warren has a point, but too much regulation could strangle the sector

Do Astronauts Make Good Politicians?
Former astronaut Mark Kelly is running for Senate. He may join a small club of astronaut politicians.

This Company Wants to Help Women Hack Their Fertility
How helpful is it really to know your ovarian hormone levels?

Whole Foods Worker: “Mid-level People… Don’t Trust Whole Foods Corporate Anymore.”
The grocery giant faced struggles long before Amazon showed up

Apple’s New iPad Mini Is a Powerful Throwback
A tablet that looks like 2016 but plays like 2019

Organize the Content Moderators

How a Limitless Internet Binds Us
The new constraints in our digital world

What Do Social Media Breaks Accomplish?
It depends on who you are

Why Instagram Made Multi-Photo Posts More Annoying
It’s all about the engagement
Two years ago, Instagram changed our feeds forever with the introduction of multi-photo posts. Users could now choose up to 10 images to display, in precisely the order they want to display them. “Create a step-by-step cake recipe that people can always find on your profile,” the company suggested in its announcement.
Something has changed since then. Multi-photo posts will now often start on the second image in a series. These “photo nudges,” as I call them, seem to occur when you scroll past an image without engaging with it. Instagram’s algorithm, growing smarter every day through the data users create, reinserts these series into your feed disguised as something new by “nudging” the second image forward. Whenever this happens, Instagram’s watching eye suddenly becomes a visible presence in my experience, and an annoying one at that.

Google Just Showed Us the Future of Gaming
Data centers could make individual game consoles obsolete

What’s on Your Home Screen, Erica Joy Baker?
Order and purpose from a principal group engineering manager at Microsoft

A Global Call to Ban the Creation of Gene-Edited Babies
Stung by a rogue scientist’s actions, experts want a moratorium on using CRISPR for germline editing
Last November, Chinese scientist He Jiankui shocked the world when he revealed that he had used the gene-editing tool CRISPR to modify human embryos during in vitro fertilization, resulting in the birth of twin girls with edited genomes. It was the first known time CRISPR had been used in this way.

WhatsApp Won’t Save Facebook
Zuckerberg’s “privacy-focused vision” for social media misses some big problems

Dear Marvel Studios: Your Cosmos Isn’t Nearly as Interesting as You Think It Is
Captain Marvel’s biggest problem isn’t the superhero, it’s the galaxy she lives in
Captain Marvel is by no means the greatest superhero film ever made. Even so, many people found Marvel Studio’s first and long overdue movie led by a female character to be unexpectedly lackluster. The titular hero may not have the cultural cache of Wonder Woman, but the Air Force pilot-turned-alien super-soldier Carol Danvers isn’t the problem (nor is Brie Larson’s well-reviewed performance). The real problem is that Marvel has vastly overestimated how much people care about what’s happening in its movie universe’s… well, universe.
Let me stop you before you tell me how much you love Guardians of the Galaxy and its sequel, or the goofy, retro delight of Thor: Ragnarok. Yes, all three of these ostensibly comic book films are undoubtedly science fiction that primarily take place in space or on other planets. And it’s undeniable that the first Avengers movie and Avengers: Infinity War featured alien invasions and became two of the highest-grossing films in history. Based off box office receipts, at least, audiences seem to love the wider Marvel cosmos.
They don’t. People loved Guardians for the four oddball characters who make up the titular team, not because it introduced the imperialistic Kree empire or the intergalactic space-cops known as the Nova Corps to the Marvel Cinematic Universe. The second GotG movie wasn’t compelling because it gave us a lengthy history lesson on the primordial, godlike beings called the Celestials, but because the heart of the movie was the relationship between Chris Pratt’s Star-Lord and his father Ego (who also happened to be a Celestial and a planet). And I defy anyone who’s read fewer than 100 Marvel comics to tell me the names of both generically evil alien species that serve as cannon fodder in the first Avengers movie and in Infinity War.
It doesn’t matter what their names are, because they still exist solely to give the heroes things to punch (or hammer or repulsor blast or… arrow). People certainly didn’t need to know anything about the Celestials to enjoy GotG2. And the Nova Corps ended up being such an important force in the Marvel galaxy that Thanos essentially killed them offscreen, just before the events of Infinity War even began. (RIP, John C. Reilly’s Corpsman Dey.)
Even the goofily exhilarating Thor: Ragnarok didn’t win over people because of the Star Wars-esque look of its alien world, but because of the loving/antagonistic relations between Thor, his brother Loki, and his “friend from work” the Hulk.

The Death of Boredom
The war for your attention has given us an era of unparalleled content choices

The History of the Taser Shows Tech Can’t Fix Policing
Fifty years after development began, the supposedly nonlethal Taser has failed to reduce the use of firearms by police

Why Being Mean Online Is Never the Way to Go
Keep it in the DMs, if you must

How People Actually Behave When They Know Their Genetic Risks

The Time Bomb of DNA Testing and Race
Do-it-yourself genetic DNA testing kits could be exploiting our curiosity to build the world’s largest surveillance system
When Alex* decided to use a DNA testing service in 2018, her motivation was clear: Like many African-Americans, she was hoping to discover something about her family lineage that predated the trauma of slavery. “It was an itch I’d wanted to scratch for a long time, and one I wouldn’t expect a white person to understand,” she told me. “So often, [they] will have pointers in their last name as to their origin or even years and years of documented family genealogy to explore, which I just didn’t have.”

Apple Should Bring Back the Clickwheel iPod
It’s time to change everything… back

How Physicians Should and Shouldn’t Talk With Dying Patients
Hospitals should require patients to give explicit informed consent before physicians are authorized to discuss life-and-death matters with them offsite via technology
Co-authored with Arthur Caplan
On March 3, 78-year-old Ernest Quintana was admitted to Kaiser Permanente Medical Center’s emergency department in Fremont, California. Quintana was suffering from lung disease; it was the third time he had been admitted to the hospital in 15 days. As his granddaughter Annalisia Wilharm stood by his bedside, a machine on wheels with an attached digital screen rolled into Quintana’s room. A live-streaming image of a doctor in a remote location appeared on the screen to tell the pair that Quintana didn’t have long to live.
While Quintana’s family “knew he was dying of chronic lung disease,” they weren’t expecting him to die imminently and in the hospital. While repeating aloud what the remote physician was saying to her hard-of-hearing grandfather, Wilharm had to be corrected. She suggested the next step might be “going to hospice at home,” but the physician told them he didn’t think Quintana would make it that far. He died in the hospital the next day.

A Nearly Foolproof Guide to Finding Your Missing Phone
No matter where you lost it

How Artificial Intelligence Can Make Doctors More Human

Who Owns a Meme?
A legal battle over Fortnite raises many questions without clear answers
There is no legal precedent for Backpack Kid, aka Russell Horning, the teenager who turned heads as the backup dancer du jour in a Katy Perry Saturday Night Live performance back in 2017. His mesmeric rhythm and aloof expression immediately went viral, and today we call his dance “the floss.”
The floss is everywhere. Ted Danson did it. Mark Ingram did it. A 96-year old World War II veteran did it. And it’s in Fortnite, where a wide range of emotes, or character actions, are sold by developer Epic Games. Fortnite characters can also dance using the “fresh” emote, which directly cribs from the “Carlton dance” Alfonso Ribeiro made famous on the Fresh Prince of Bel-Air, or “swipe it,” a copy of 2 Milly’s Milly Rock dance.
None of the creators of these dances see a cent from the game’s in-app purchases, which, in aggregate, reportedly led Epic to $1 billion in revenue midway through last year. So, naturally, the creators sued. And quickly hit a brick wall.
Three months after filing those suits, Horning, 2 Milly, and Ribiero each temporarily dropped their cases this week after the Supreme Court ruled that plaintiffs can’t sue for copyright infringement until they have officially applied, and received, a copyright license on their dances from the U.S. Copyright Office.

Smartphones Are About to Get Weird
As sales slow, phone-makers may get gimmicky
The future is foldable, if smartphone makers are to be believed. At Mobile World Congress in February, Samsung announced that it would release a futuristic folding phone at the end of April for an eye-popping $1,980.
The Galaxy Fold unfurls from a phone into a tablet-sized device. It’s mesmerizing to watch people use this device, like something out of a science-fiction movie. Huawei, Xiaomi, and others have already announced their own rival foldable gadgets. Apple is rumored to be looking into the technology. Foldable screens may soon be everywhere.
This just leaves one simple question: Why?
Foldable devices are one possible solution to a problem many of the world’s biggest tech manufacturers are worried about: shrinking smartphone sales. Our phones are lasting longer than ever, which is great for consumers who don’t want to spend hundreds of dollars every year but not so great for manufacturers who want those consumers to buy new phones every year. The current state of technology isn’t going to do it; companies need something flashy, marketable, and entirely original to make consumers willing to trade in their current phones for a pricier new model. A phone that folds is just one possibility; weirder is going to be better for the next wave of smartphones.

The Case for Visiting the Outer Planets
Scientists are begging NASA to go back to Uranus and Neptune

Facebook Is Eroding Trust in Two-Factor Authentication
The latest privacy scandal goes beyond the platform

30 Years On, What’s Next #ForTheWeb?
Web inventor Sir Tim Berners-Lee reflects on how the web has changed our world
Today, 30 years on from my original proposal for an information management system, half the world is online. It’s a moment to celebrate how far we’ve come, but also an opportunity to reflect on how far we have yet to go.
The web has become a public square, a library, a doctor’s office, a shop, a school, a design studio, an office, a cinema, a bank, and so much more. Of course with every new feature, every new website, the divide between those who are online and those who are not increases, making it all the more imperative to make the web available for everyone.
And while the web has created opportunity, given marginalised groups a voice, and made our daily lives easier, it has also created opportunity for scammers, given a voice to those who spread hatred, and made all kinds of crime easier to commit.
Against the backdrop of news stories about how the web is misused, it’s understandable that many people feel afraid and unsure if the web is really a force for good. But given how much the web has changed in the past 30 years, it would be defeatist and unimaginative to assume that the web as we know it can’t be changed for the better in the next 30. If we give up on building a better web now, then the web will not have failed us. We will have failed the web.
To tackle any problem, we must clearly outline and understand it. I broadly see three sources of dysfunction affecting today’s web:
While the first category is impossible to eradicate completely, we can create both laws and code to minimize this behaviour, just as we have always done offline. The second category requires us to redesign systems in a way that changes incentives. And the final category calls for research to understand existing systems and model possible new ones or tweak those we already have.
You can’t just blame one government, one social network or the human spirit. Simplistic narratives risk exhausting our energy as we chase the symptoms of these problems instead of focusing on their root causes. To get this right, we will need to come together as a global web community.
At pivotal moments, generations before us have stepped up to work together for a better future. With the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, diverse groups of people have been able to agree on essential principles. With the Law of the Sea and the Outer Space Treaty, we have preserved new frontiers for the common good. Now too, as the web reshapes our world, we have a responsibility to make sure it is recognised as a human right and built for the public good. This is why the Web Foundation is working with governments, companies and citizens to build a new Contract for the Web.
This contract was launched in Lisbon at Web Summit, bringing together a group of people who agree we need to establish clear norms, laws and standards that underpin the web. Those who support it endorse its starting principles and together are working out the specific commitments in each area. No one group should do this alone, and all input will be appreciated. Governments, companies and citizens are all contributing, and we aim to have a result later this year.

Why People Buy $30 Power Cords Against All Reason
An informed theory
Maybe you’ve heard of Occam’s Razor? It’s the logical principle that holds that the simplest answer to a question is usually the correct one. And the simplest answer, according to Occam’s Razor, is the one that requires the fewest number of assumptions or jumps in logic to reach the correct conclusion.
With that in mind, a question recently came up in conversation: Why in the world would anyone buy Apple’s $30 6.5-foot Lightning-to-USB cable? A couple of answers arose:
Of course, neither theory rationalizes a $30 price tag. These aren’t special cables. They aren’t threaded or colored. They’re the standard-issue cable that comes with an iPhone, just with more cable and exponentially more expensive than the exact same cables you can buy elsewhere.
If Apple were the only company making six-foot iPhone cords (or iPhone cords period), they could charge whatever the hell they want to the extension-cord-averse among their constituency.
And yet: They’re not! You know this because as a warm-blooded, Internet-reading human, you’ve walked into a bodega/gas station/drug store sometime over the last three years and seen Lightning-to-USB cords for sale near the checkout counter.
So ubiquitous are these squirrelly power-transferring electronic white snakes, and so utterly universal is their propensity for abduction by the junk demon who consumes all seminecessary small items in our lives—items as annoying to lose as they are utterly replaceable—that you can now throw in an extra Lightning-to-USB cord with a sixer of Tampaxx Pearl, a tallboy of Molson Ice, some scratchers, and a pack of Winston Lights. This modern age! How delightful.
And if you wanna get really nasty, just forget about what else can be in your cart when you pick it up from Amazon (which will be more socks, obviously).
But about buying this same cord online: Amazon Basics retails a 6-foot Lightning-to-USB cord for $12.99. They even come in colors! Rose gold! Neon pink! You know what kind of cable $30 will buy you on Amazon?
Not just one, buttwocolor-blocked10-foot Lightning-to-USB cables! What a bargain! What bounty! What resplendency among us!
But none of that explains why Apple charges 30 bucks.
Now, you’re probably thinking: “Those cords aren’t authorized by Apple! Those cords are trash. Those cords won’t work. Those cords will set my house on fire. Those cords are made of ‘inferior’ material.”
While you’re correct that these off-brand cables are not, in fact, manufactured by Apple, each Lightning-to-USB cable third-party manufacturer can get their products MFI Certified, which means they have to be up to Apple’s own manufacturing standards (meaning it has to work, it has to be safe, it has to be made of nonradioactive materials, etc).
One company wanted to see just what a pain it is to get MFI Certified. Turns out? Kind of a pain! But they do it, and you can check for that certification when you buy a (cheaper) cord. You should, too, unless you want to burn out your iPhone.
So, now you know: Non-Apple cables are essentially identical to Apple cables, with that certification. They’re also comically cheaper. Thus, the question remains: Why does Apple even bother selling a $30 Lightning-to-USB cable?
Let’s return to Occam’s Razor:
And the thing is, that last one? While it’s conspiratorially minded, tinfoil-hat-wearing nonsense, it’s also the one that’s closest to the truth of why they do this:
Because they can.
Apple can, in fact, sell the same product at more than triple the price of where you can buy it elsewhere because people will buy it. That’s why.
And Apple, a publicly-traded company, will make every single dollar they can off of consumers, no matter how irrational the transaction might actually be. Remember that word: irrational. It’s important to keep in mind when considering that Apple is far from the first company to be able to get consumers to commit to an irrational transaction and profit endlessly off it.
For example, your drugstore—the same one where they now sell off-brand iPhone cables by the checkout counter—also has shelves lousy with generic, store-label cola next to near-empty shelves of regular Coca-Cola. Why is this?
One might argue: I know how Coke tastes, and that trash fizzyswill ain’t Coke! Okay, fine. But do people take Advil for the taste? (They don’t, or at least most don’t.) Then how do we explain the bottles of generic ibuprofen that get left on the shelf in favor of Pfizer’s Advil, which costs a few bucks more, even though both products are regulated by the FDA to ensure there is literally no difference in the core composition of the two products—it’s against the law for there to be a difference.
One takeaway from a 2013 Quarterly Journal of Economics study found that informed drugstore consumers—meaning pharmacists, nurses, or doctors—almost always buy generic brands over established brands, while the rest of us are more likely to fall victim to our biases and wrongheaded “beliefs” about “better” brands. How much money could be saved if we all bought generic drugs, as opposed to their major pharmaceutical brands? Not millions, but up to a billion dollars.
And yet, a confession:
I still buy Advil. I like looking at my dresser and the way my eyes zero in on its weird yellow-and-hunter-green labeling slapped over its squat, dumb little body. I like the way this bottle beckons me with the promise of ending the throbbing in my skull, the relief I feel the first time I see it as I tumble toward it once the rosy-fingered dawn of an agonizingly dehydrated Sunday is in full swing. I like the way my brain begins to soothe itself even more once those maroon Advil-imprinted moons nest in my hands in the moments before I dry-dock them into my dumb, hungover gullet Dr. House-style.
Yes, I still pay a few bucks more for Advil.
Yes, This is an irresponsible financial decision.
Yes, I could, theoretically, train myself to buy dumb-brand Advil, and dumb-brand all-kinds-of-products that contain the same stuff as their branded contemporaries. Cetaphil face wash. Dawn dish soap. Bounty paper towels. Whatever it is.
It’s why entire non-brand brands have appeared to ostensibly rescue us from the oppression of our lizard-brains. Enter Brandless! Enter (if you have a meth-lab technician’s understanding of skin care products) The Ordinary! Enter Great Jones, here to declare war on Le Creuset and All-Clad, a veritable Visigoth of cookware here to decimate the old gods of overpricing and iconicism! These are exciting, freeing times to be a consumer, a liberating moment for low-level participants in late-stage capitalism if there ever was one!
And here, one might cut in again, and note: Hey, pal, you like your dumbass on-brand Advil. You think Coke tastes better out of a (more expensive) glass bottle. Why cheer these guys on?
To which I would respond:
Because I am an idiot. And so are you. And so is everyone.
Enter University of Chicago economist Richard Thaler, who won a Nobel Prize in Economics in 2017 for his work regarding this very revelation. And if Thaler needs to buy an iPhone cable, I’ll bet you the $13 price difference that he’ll go for the off-brand one. Thaler is a pioneer in the field of behavioral economics and was given the Oslo Ovation for his work detailing the fact that, we do not always make rational decisions that benefit us economically, even as we know what bad decisions we’re making, as we’re making them, and even as a better option is right there in front of our eyes.
Why do we do this? Because we’re humans. And humans do irrational things all the time—even when they know better.
Not that you needed someone to win a Nobel Prize to tell you that, but this man did substantial research into just what lizard-brained disasters we collectively are. And yes, it’s a fact of life that we are wired this way, that we make terrible decisions, decisions that conflict with our self-interest, decisions that we make again and again and don’t learn from, decisions that hurt other people, that hurt ourselves, maybe because we need to feel the pain of being human, and the pain of poor-decision making makes us feel alive, gives us relief from the condition of the endless and inescapable tomes of our self-inflicted narratives, in love, in life, with friends, with families, with lovers, in our pasts, in our present, in our wallets, at a drugstore checkout counter, or simply, in that all-too-common and universal moment of self-loathing that unites us all, every time we’ve lost yet another goddamn iPhone cord.

Warehouse Worker: “I Don’t Have Energy to Do Much Else Aside From Amazon.”
’I am totally in favor of the automation in the warehouses.’

Ctrl-Alt-Delete: The Planned Obsolescence of Old Coders
Old coders never die, they just become middle managers.
That’s probably why Apple sells it. Not just because they can, but because one of your fellow idiot humans will buy it. And maybe you will too.
This is probably true of most of the companies, selling most of the bullshit in the world.
Update: An earlier version of this piece incorrectly stated the price of a Lightning-to-USB cord on Amazon.

A New Privacy Constitution for Facebook
Mark Zuckerberg wants to fix the social network. Here’s what he’ll need to do.

Microsoft Nails ‘Mixed Reality’ With the HoloLens 2
It’s still not for consumers, but you may want one anyway

Computer-Generated Faces Are Getting Real
Too real, maybe

The Progressive Case for Cashless Stores
Everyone should be concerned about unbanked populations losing access to an increasingly cashless economy
Last year on November 26, Elgin Brack and his uncle Scott sat in an idling car outside of a Duane Reade in the New York borough of Queens. Around 3:30 a.m., Elgin got out of the car and allegedly entered the store with a gun, where instead of robbing the store of its cash, he reportedly got in an argument with the cashier and shot him in the head. Elgin and his uncle allegedly went on to rob four more stores at gunpoint.
Two days later, New York City Councilman Ritchie Torres introduced legislation requiring all stores and restaurants in the city to accept cash.
Councilman Torres’ bill—one of several similar efforts in states and cities—is trying to solve a real problem. Cashless stores and restaurants like Sweetgreen and Dos Toros are becoming increasingly common, but they theoretically discriminate against people who don’t have access to cashless payment methods like debit and credit cards, a group that is poor and disproportionately black and Hispanic. Most debit and credit cards require consumers to have a bank account, and with 14 million unbanked adults in the U.S.—people who lack a checking or savings account—that isn’t a reality for everyone. By requiring all stores and restaurants in New York City to accept cash, Torres hopes to ensure the unbanked won’t be effectively banned from these stores.
Unfortunately this new policy unnecessarily exposes front line retail and restaurant workers—a group that is also disproportionately poor and people of color—to the risks of carrying cash, burdens the businesses that employ the people Torres hopes to help by forcing them to take on the operational costs of cash, and fails to address the larger problem of unbanked people being unable to access the online economy.
Instead of trying to resist the transition away from using cash, we should be focused on making sure that unbanked people have cheap or free access to cashless payment methods to ensure that everyone can participate in the full economy—both physical and digital.
Everyone should be concerned about unbanked populations losing access to an increasingly cashless economy. In the United States, 6.5 percent of the population is unbanked, including 16.8 percent of black people and 14 percent of Hispanic people. Over 50 percent of those who are unbanked said they don’t have enough money to have a checking account.
While the unbanked population has been steadily decreasing (from 7.7 percent in 2013 to 6.5 percent in 2017), ensuring that this disadvantaged population continues to have access to the market should be of concern to both government leaders and the businesses that unbanked people should have access to.
To this point, many people have pointed out that brick-and-mortar retailers that don’t accept cash discriminate against unbanked people. So far, it appears the problem of access to brick-and-mortar businesses right now is mostly theoretical. In a February 2018 article in Eater, Christine Gianakis, the spokesperson for the NYC Department of Consumer Affairs, acknowledged that cashless establishments aren’t “something the DCA has received many complaints on.” The reality is that cashless businesses cater to customers who can already afford $5 coffees and $15 salads and, therefore, are unlikely to be unbanked to begin with.
Still, just because a problem doesn’t currently exist does not mean it won’t in the future. Nor should we excuse a discriminatory condition even if it doesn’t appear to be currently causing harm. The question is, do we try to keep the status quo and force businesses to accept cash and its downsides, or do we work to accelerate giving unbanked people access to the cashless economy?
Unlike cases where unbanked people can’t buy things at cashless stores, examples of violent robberies of restaurants and stores are not hard to find. There’s the Target in Manhattan where robbers forced the manager to hand over more than $45,000 at gunpoint. Or the Sweetgreen (now a cashless store) in Union Square where Johnell Turner allegedly pulled out a gun and said, “You really don’t want to die for Sweetgreen.” Or the Baltimore cafe that went cashless after being robbed five times in four months.
In 2018, retail businesses in the United States experienced 5,753 robberies, 57 percent of which were armed robberies; 488 people died violent deaths that year as a result. Many of the people who died were retail sales workers, cashiers, and store managers—people who are often paid at or near minimum wage.
Until recently, cash was a required part of a functioning economy, and the crime surrounding it was an inevitable side effect. For most businesses, this remains the reality. But with a cashless economy, we have an opportunity to reduce the risk that retail workers are put in every day, and forcing businesses to accept cash would be an unmitigated step backward in improving the safety of retail workers.
Perhaps the most obvious case against cash is that it has become a relatively slow form of payment. It requires manual counting by both the customer and the cashier and the shuffle of giving change and putting it away. Chef Nelson German, owner of San Francisco restaurant AlaMar, estimates that transactions without cash are seven seconds faster than those without.
It may not seem like much, but for high-volume restaurants and retail stores, those few seconds can significantly impact their business. Sweetgreen estimates that since going cashless, it’s able to serve up to 15 percent more customers per hour. When a business depends on the lunchtime rush to meet its revenue plan, this can have a huge impact on its ability to survive and grow.
The reality is that the cashiers, dishwashers, and food preparers who work at restaurants are disproportionately poor and people of color. The more customers you can serve, the more staff you need. The more successful your stores, the greater your ability to expand and hire (and promote) even more workers. Any policy that negatively affects these small- and medium-sized businesses risks unintentionally harming the people who work there.
Amazon, Wish, Brandless, and the New York City government are all online experiences that require debit or credit cards. When looking at the disadvantages faced by unbanked people, the largest problem is that the modern economy is rapidly shifting online, where cash cannot be accepted at all. The inability to shop at discount stores like Amazon, Overstock, and Wish limits access to goods that are often cheaper than those in brick-and-mortar stores. Additionally, there is now a class of products that aren’t even sold in stores: a new breed of businesses like Dollar Shave Club, Everlane, and Brandless are offering superior products for less by skipping retail altogether and selling their goods directly online.
Government services themselves are increasingly being provided over the internet as well. In New York City, those of us who have a debit or credit card can conveniently pay parking tickets online. If you’re unbanked, you’re required to take the trip to pay your ticket in person, taking away valuable time people could use supporting themselves or their family.
Between a lack of access to cheap products, products that aren’t sold in stores, and government services provided online, it’s clear that the unbanked are increasingly being excluded from our economy in a much more significant way than not being able to buy a $12 burrito at Dos Toros.
Requiring cash acceptance at restaurants to combat unfair treatment of unbanked people is like putting a Band-Aid on a broken arm. While requiring stores and restaurants to accept cash certainly can’t hurt unbanked people, it seems unlikely to actually help them, and it risks distracting from solving the real problems they face in accessing the online economy.
Debit and credit cards issued by banks aren’t the only way that someone can make cashless transactions. Prepaid debit cards and other alternatives provide an easy and widely distributed alternative to traditional checking accounts. Many convenience stores already stock Visa and American Express gift cards that can easily be used in cashless transactions. Better yet, new services like Bluebird by American Express allow for anyone to have many of the benefits of a traditional debit card without the need for a permanent address or a social security number. In fact, this is already starting to happen: 26.7 percent of the unbanked population is already using prepaid debit cards of some kind.
While we’re still in the early stages of a transition to a cashless economy, policy makers like Councilman Torres should focus on ensuring unbanked people have access to the cashless economy. This could come in many forms: requiring cashless businesses to have vending machines for free prepaid debit cards, subsidies for access to debit card alternatives, or requiring banks to offer products that reduce or remove the barriers unbanked people are facing. By increasing access to cashless payment methods, we will both solve the problem of discrimination in cashless stores and address the much larger problem of access to the online economy.
What doesn’t help progress is a well-intentioned but misguided policy that solidifies our dangerous and inefficient reliance on cash and doesn’t actually address the core issues creating the disenfranchisement of unbanked people.

Why Good Digital Privacy Legislation Is So Hard to Get Right
Clearly, we are in dire need of better legal protections related to our data, but that’s easier said than done

Erasing Women in Tech: How ‘60 Minutes’ Ignored Women’s Voices, Stories, and Expertise
A response from the founder and CEO of Girls Who Code
Almost a year ago, 60 Minutes producers contacted Girls Who Code. The news show was working on a segment about girls and computer science and wanted to better understand what initiatives to close the gender gap in tech were proving effective.

What’s on Your Home Screen, Farhad Manjoo?
Exploring a very messy screen with the ‘New York Times’ columnist

Can “Govtech” Save the Government—and Tech?
Tech companies can help streamline government services, but they need to overcome privacy fears
Gavin Newsom did not become governor of California quietly. During his first days in office in January 2019, Newsom said he would remove state National Guard troops from the Mexico border, and he accused the White House of “corruption and incompetence.”
The mini-drama surrounding his first few weeks in office eclipsed two significant new policies that will affect how the state of California collaborates with technology companies. On his first day in office, Newsom announced changes to the way state agencies could buy technology. On his second, he created a new department—the Office of Digital Innovation—with a starting budget of $36.2 million.
Few Americans took note of the announcements. But in the technology world, Newsom’s policies were read as a nod to a little-known sector called “govtech,” where technology companies offer solutions to government problems.
While technology has transformed our lives as consumers—for better and for worse—our existence as citizens has remained largely untouched by the influence of tech, as anyone who tried to renew their driver’s license or contact their local representative knows. But Newsom—who was mayor of San Francisco during some of the frothiest years in tech—has long pushed for governments to partner with tech companies on innovation. His new policies spotlight an important question: how can governments make applying for food stamps or reporting earthquake damage as seamless as ordering an Uber?
Code for America’s app, ClearMyRecord, is one promising answer. In 2014, as many as one million Californians with low-level, nonviolent felonies became eligible to clear or change their records after lawmakers recognized how even minor convictions can create barriers to jobs, housing, and student loans. But actually clearing those convictions was so bureaucratic that few people managed to complete it; in LA County, only seven percent of eligible citizens even started the process.
“Essentially, it was a law that was unimplemented,” says Code for America founder Jennifer Pahlka. The nonprofit was founded in 2009 to bridge the gap between private sector technology expertise and public sector needs. In 2016, it created a free-to-use mobile and desktop app that can help affected citizens complete the first steps of an application to “clear their record” in just 10 minutes. Applicants typically hear back from an attorney around 25 days later—a significant improvement over the previous system that had limited access to a series of complex forms and could take three-six months to complete each stage. Since the launch of Clear My Record, more than 11,000 people in 14 California counties have applied to dismiss or reduce their own convictions using the software.
Code for America has been working with San Francisco district attorney George Gascón to further streamline the process of dismissing convictions. Since 2018, the nonprofit has been running algorithms through Department of Justice databases, automatically clearing eligible records—no application required. In February 2019, Gascón announced that the project had automatically cleared another 8,000 convictions, all marijuana-related. San Francisco is now the first county in the U.S. to automate the clearing of convictions, and the pilot project will be expanded across the state.
Code for America’s program is emblematic of the Golden State’s progressive approach to govtech. “California continues to be a leader in digital infrastructure,” says Jay Nath, San Francisco’s chief innovation officer from 2012 to 2018. “That spirit has now been continued with Governor Newsom. He’s using the ethos of the Valley to transform government.”
While in office, Nath created Start Up In Residence, a program that matched tech startups with government agencies. When San Francisco asked Nath to help the county find more people willing to be foster parents, he introduced the Human Services Agency to Felicia Curcuru, a former McKinsey analyst who was trying to use tech to help improve the private adoption process.
Curcuru shadowed the department for four months in 2016, approaching the problem from a tech perspective. “The system was complicated, time-consuming, entirely paper-based,” she says. “A lot of prospective foster parents would drop out midway through the application process. But the number of children needing foster parents wasn’t getting any less.”
She transformed that application system, creating a software program called “Binti,” which means “daughter” in Swahili, Arabic, and Malaysian. The software went live in 2017 and enabled foster parents to apply online, sign everything digitally, and upload supporting documents to the web. “With Binti, counties have seen 60 percent more families approved in 20 percent less time, with the same team,” she says. The software has since been adopted by 34 of California’s 58 counties and is now in place in 12 other states.

Notifications Are Broken and Technology Companies Should Fix Them
Technology companies should be held responsible for the notifications being sent in their ecosystem
Bleep. Bloop. Buzz. It feels like notifications are inescapable, constant, and growing in number every day, no matter what we do about them. We’re all spending hours of our day staring into our phones, because they’re designed to pull us in: a dopamine hit released when your phone buzzes is all it takes.
Despite the research suggesting that notifications, and the resulting overuse of smartphones, are causing serious mental health issues globally, little is being done about it. There’s been no meaningful change to notifications in 10 years, and technology companies aren’t being held liable.

‘Fortnite’ Creative Mode Is Changing How We Think of Game Design
’This is all about putting the tools in the hands of people that might not otherwise get the opportunity.’

How Middle School Subverted Instagram’s Slider Emoji Tool
The company’s good intentions aren’t enough to stop abuse

The Relentless Misery of Working Inside an Amazon Warehouse
Life as a cog in Amazon’s retail machine

America’s New Data Privacy Bills Won’t Protect Us
We need to have a much bigger conversation about privacy in relation to our increasingly digital lives

Browser Tabs Are Ruining Your Brain
Here’s what to do about it

Free Will in an Algorithmic World
In this brave new world, many of our choices aren’t choices at all

A Neuroscientist Explores Addiction, the Brain, and Her Past
Judith Grisel shares her story and science in her book, ‘Never Enough’
By the time Judith Grisel turned 23, it had been years since she had gone so much as a day “without a drink, pill, fix, or joint,” she says now. Homeless in South Florida, Grisel stole credit cards to feed her habit, got kicked out of three colleges, and ultimately began shooting cocaine. At one point, while doing cocaine with a Vietnam vet named Johnny, the man overdosed. His eyes rolled back in his head, and he began convulsing. Grisel’s response? “He probably won’t want his next bump,” she remembers.
As Grisel writes in her new book, Never Enough: The Neuroscience and Experience of Addiction, Johnny didn’t die that day. But decades later, of the three people in his apartment during that overdose, Grisel is the only one still alive.
Now a professor of psychology and neuroscience at Bucknell University in Pennsylvania, Grisel has been clean and sober for more than 30 years. Her turning point, she says, was the hope that her seemingly hopeless addiction could be solved with science—specifically through understanding the neuroscience of addiction.
OneZero caught up with Grisel and discussed whether addiction is a mental illness, if more psychoactive drugs should become legal, the promise of psychedelics, and more.
This interview has been edited and condensed for clarity.

Review: Samsung’s Galaxy S10+ Is a Nearly Perfect Android
A great choice as long as you’re not super concerned about security

How Air Purifiers Became the Newest Wellness Craze
Air purifiers are being sold as health devices. But do they work?

Why the 21st Century Will Be Defined by Biology
Neuroscientist Susan Hockfield—the first female president of MIT—on women in science, living batteries, and the coming biotech revolution
When the neuroscientist Susan Hockfield became the 16th president of the Massachusetts Institute of Technology (MIT) in December 2004, the news made waves—and not just because Hockfield was the first woman to earn the top job. Hockfield was also the first life scientist to run what is the world’s foremost engineering institution. That might have seemed like a set up for a culture clash—biology is the study of life, and life is messy, while engineering strives for mechanical precision.
But, as Hockfield, who stepped down from her position in 2012, points out, biology has more in common with engineering than you might expect. Just as the physical world is made up of components that can be analyzed and engineered, so is life itself, thanks to the groundbreaking discoveries of molecular biology. And just as our ability to engineer the physical world led to the great innovations of the 20th century, our growing ability to engineer biology opens the door to new inventions that could help us tackle epic challenges like climate change.
In her forthcoming book The Age of Living Machines: How Biology Will Build the Next Technology Revolution, Hockfield highlights some of those new innovations, including engineered viruses that can grow organic batteries and water filters that depend on a protein found in the human body. Hockfield spoke with OneZero about the convergence of biology and engineering, the risk that America could lose its scientific leadership, and the challenge of being a woman in science.
This interview has been condensed and edited for clarity.

What It’s Like Working as an Amazon Flex Delivery Driver
Drivers can make $20 an hour delivering packages for Amazon Flex, but shifts are drying up

The Brain That Remade Itself

We’re Already Designing Babies
Expanded genetic testing of embryos represents a new era of family planning. But how far should the technology go?

The Internet Is Broken. Here’s Who Can Fix It.
The fight for local broadband is finally heating up

Welcome to OneZero
Introducing Medium’s new tech and science publication

Programmers Need a Hippocratic Oath
Ethics training and oversight should be mandatory for software engineers

We Can Learn to See Through ‘Deepfake’ Video Hoaxes
The latest in hoaxing technology is powerful, but it’s not unbeatable

The Ethically Questionable Math Game Taking Over U.S. Schools
Kids love “edutainment,” but does the business model exploit them?

Our Government Should Not Be Conducting Facial Surveillance
New proposals for regulating the use of face recognition technology are major victories for the legislative imagination, even if they don’t become law
Co-authored by Woodrow Hartzog
The debate over facial recognition technology has advanced to the point where one thing is clear: It must be regulated. Not only have civil rights groups like the ACLU made this case, but even companies like Microsoft and Amazon acknowledge that change is necessary.
The question, then, is what’s the best way to respond to the dangers that facial recognition poses? Problems concerning bias and disparate impacts on minority communities are far from resolved. Corporate proposals aren’t credible solutions given the risk involved. And the dangers to our basic constitutional liberties are so profound that it might not be possible to effectively protect them.
Thankfully, major change is happening in how lawmakers are willing to think about regulation. After a few blips from Illinois, Texas, and Washington imposing some rules on biometric surveillance amid a nearly complete absence of specific restrictions otherwise, in the past month three bills have been introduced at the state and city level that go beyond singling out facial recognition technology as exceptionally dangerous for governments to use. Instead, they aim to outright temporarily or permanently ban it.
This is a big deal, even if the bills never become law. They are evidence that widespread, unrelenting deployment of facial recognition technology is not an inevitability. They also demonstrate how collectively we can break the cultural and political trajectory of ever-increasing, ever-intrusive surveillance.
The first proposed ban on facial recognition technology was the Stop Secret Surveillance Ordinance, put forth by Aaron Peskin, a member of San Francisco’s Board of Supervisors, in January 2019. It was part of a more comprehensive set of rules to enhance government surveillance oversight. The bill’s ban on facial recognition technology is complete and succinct, simply making it unlawful for the government to use facial recognition technology and the data obtained from it in any way.
This is the most robust and direct attempt to protect against government abuses of facial recognition technology that we have seen.
In early February, Massachusetts Senator Cynthia Creem and Representative David Rogers introduced bills that would implement a moratorium on all biometric surveillance until it could be proved to be safe, nondiscriminatory, and used in a sustainable way with respect to our privacy and civil liberties.
Two further bills introduced around the same time by Washington state senators Bob Hasegawa, Rebecca Saldaña, and Joe Nguyen would similarly provide for a moratorium on facial recognition pending a report on its accuracy but would also prohibit its use in public places or in analyzing body camera footage without a warrant. Unlike the San Francisco bill, this one paves the path for biometric surveillance through the use of warrants.
Each of these legislative moves demonstrates the appetite for regulation of facial recognition. They have been introduced at the same time as more comprehensive and, in some ways, less robust bills that regulate facial recognition specifically and biometrics more generally, including for industry. Suggested proposals by Amazon and Microsoft are not as prohibitive and focus on process, transparency, and consent, but they would also all but guarantee a rollout of facial recognition infrastructure. Lawmakers and the rest of society have tough decisions to make.

How I Became Addicted to an On-Demand Gig
I quickly discovered that Postmates was a genius at luring me back online

The Party Drug That Could Help Stop Depression
The anesthetic ketamine receives official FDA approval to treat depression. Is the tradeoff worth it?

It’s Okay to Put Your Phone Down
People would rather be on their phones than engage with other people
I’m sitting in a coffee shop right now that overlooks a busy four-way stop at an intersection. I keep seeing people drive by, and as they roll to a stop, they look down at their phones, only to let off the brake and continue on their merry way, sometimes with their phone still in hand.
All I can think is, “Why, for crying out loud, is it so necessary to check your phone for two seconds?!” But then I remember that this is not the only situation where this behavior occurs, and smartphone addiction isn’t exactly a recent development. I recently wrote about deactivating my Facebook account because of how it interfered with my daily life, but I think the issue goes even further than that.
I see this problem every day with my students in the classroom. If you haven’t been around a school lately, I’ll paint you a picture: droves of teenagers walking down a hallway, most with their earbuds in while looking down at their phones. I take delight in stepping in front of them just so they can awkwardly bump into me because they aren’t paying the least bit of attention. “You shouldn’t text and walk,” I tell them half-laughing, half-serious, but they can’t hear me. Even worse, I see some students in the classroom who have a compulsive connection to their phones. I’ve had to take phones away simply because some students genuinely can’t seem to put them down.
Adults are no better. I look around during after-school meetings and at least half of my colleagues are on their phones, completely ignoring the presenter. I too have been guilty of this. I used to jump from app to app to check the latest updates and scroll mindlessly through my feeds, looking for something more “entertaining” than the real world. But was anything I was doing necessary? Definitely not.
And of course we’re all too familiar by now with the modern hangout or dinnertime scene: a bunch of friends or family members in the same room all looking at their phones. Even more sad than these scenarios, however, is what I saw on TV two weeks ago. It was a news story by the local media in which the reporter interviewed a group of children about how they feel when their parents spend a lot of time on their phones. The parents watched the conversation from another room and reacted in shock when most of the kids confessed that they often felt ignored or, even worse, that the child was afraid to interrupt the parent and make them angry. Needless to say, there is a major problem in our society that all of us need to address.
It’s been more than a decade since smartphones and tablets first appeared. Since then, humans have been completely glued to their devices. On the one hand, the technology does make daily life easier and more convenient, but on the other hand, people have become too accustomed to using tech merely as outlets to escape the real world and the people around us. Check out the pictures in this article by the Huffington Post and you’ll see the problem very clearly: People would rather be on their phones than engage with other people.
I wanted to do some digging to find out just how addicted we are. I found a study that showed smartphone users spend an average of 140 minutes on their phones each day, unlocking them more than 70 times and touching them more than 2,600 times total! I was shocked at first; I know I fall into the average user category, and it’s appalling to think how much wasted time that adds up to in an entire year of smartphone addiction.
As Sherry Turkle, an MIT psychologist and author of the book Alone Together: Why We Expect More From Technology and Less From Each Other, writes, “The way I like to put it is technology can make us forget what we know about life. One of the things it’s made us forget is that we need to tend to our relationships and other people and our own feelings.”
Turkle’s advice is spot-on. We need to take time away from our devices to actively engage with the people around us and cultivate better relationships, as humans were genetically programmed to do. Equally important, we need to tend to our own feelings, because so many of us don’t even realize the anxiety and stress that being addicted to our smartphone is creating in our lives.
I know this, because I was that person.

The Third Law
The future of computing is analog
The history of computing can be divided into an Old Testament and a New Testament: before and after electronic digital computers and the codes they spawned proliferated across the earth. The Old Testament prophets, who delivered the underlying logic, included Thomas Hobbes and Gottfried Wilhelm Leibniz. The New Testament prophets included Alan Turing, John von Neumann, Claude Shannon, and Norbert Wiener. They delivered the machines.
Alan Turing wondered what it would take for machines to become intelligent. John von Neumann wondered what it would take for machines to self-reproduce. Claude Shannon wondered what it would take for machines to communicate reliably, no matter how much noise intervened. Norbert Wiener wondered how long it would take for machines to assume control.
Wiener’s warnings about control systems beyond human control appeared in 1949, just as the first generation of stored-program electronic digital computers were introduced. These systems required direct supervision by human programmers, undermining his concerns. What’s the problem, as long as programmers are in control of the machines? Ever since, debate over the risks of autonomous control has remained associated with the debate over the powers and limitations of digitally coded machines. Despite their astonishing powers, little real autonomy has been observed. This is a dangerous assumption. What if digital computing is being superseded by something else?
Electronics underwent two fundamental transitions over the past hundred years: from analog to digital and from vacuum tubes to solid state. That these transitions occurred together does not mean they are inextricably linked. Just as digital computation was implemented using vacuum tube components, analog computation can be implemented in solid state. Analog computation is alive and well, even though vacuum tubes are commercially extinct.
There is no precise distinction between analog and digital computing. In general, digital computing deals with integers, binary sequences, deterministic logic, and time that is idealized into discrete increments, whereas analog computing deals with real numbers, nondeterministic logic, and continuous functions, including time as it exists as a continuum in the real world.
Imagine you need to find the middle of a road. You can measure its width using any available increment and then digitally compute the middle to the nearest increment. Or you can use a piece of string as an analog computer, mapping the width of the road to the length of the string and finding the middle, without being limited to increments, by doubling the string back upon itself.
Many systems operate across both analog and digital regimes. A tree integrates a wide range of inputs as continuous functions, but if you cut down that tree, you find that it has been counting the years digitally all along.
In analog computing, complexity resides in network topology, not in code. Information is processed as continuous functions of values, such as voltage and relative pulse frequency, rather than by logical operations on discrete strings of bits. Digital computing, intolerant of error or ambiguity, depends upon error correction at every step along the way. Analog computing tolerates errors, allowing you to live with them.
Nature uses digital coding for the storage, replication, and recombination of sequences of nucleotides but relies on analog computing, running on nervous systems, for intelligence and control. The genetic system in every living cell is a stored-program computer. Brains aren’t.
Digital computers execute transformations between two species of bits: bits representing differences in space and bits representing differences in time. The transformations between these two forms of information, sequence and structure, are governed by the computer’s programming, and as long as computers require human programmers, we retain control.

Samsung Galaxy S10 Hands-on: Giving the iPhone a Run for Its Money
With power sharing, novel fingerprint readers, more storage for less, and the promise of 5G, Samsung draws a mobile line in the sand
There’s always been a lot in common between the iPhone and Samsung’s Galaxy devices. With the Galaxy S10 line, announced by the company in San Francisco today, that connection is cemented in an oddly intimate fashion.
At a recent briefing about Samsung’s new phones, I slid the glossy back of my iPhone XS against the Galaxy S10+; it began sucking power from this new Android device. I realized we’d entered mostly uncharted territory here, where rival phones could share something fundamental: the actual energy surging through their batteries.
In the near-decade since the first Samsung Galaxy S line first appeared, Samsung and Apple have traded shots in a constant game of one-upmanship. When Samsung offered an “Infinity Display” with the Galaxy S8, Apple responded with a nearly edge-to-edge, notched OLED screen on the iPhone X. This back-and-forth has resulted in a convergence, with each company delivering gleaming glass and metal slabs that threaten to become indistinguishable from one another.

Scientists Are Making THC and CBD Without Marijuana
New research paves the way for cannabinoids without cannabis

Does the Apple Watch Make You Healthier?
Medical ethicists worry that the burgeoning ability to monitor health data at home will widen the gap between the haves and the have-nots

How to Quit Your Job in 837 Easy Steps

8 Reasons Why Apple Won’t Buy Netflix
It has the cash, and Netflix has the audience. But the idea is still rotten.
Did you catch the latest episode of Analysts Say the Craziest Stuff? It’s a one-off where JPMorgan analyst Samik Chatterjee spins a fantastic tale about how Apple could buy Netflix to instantly become a content leader.
The premise is based on Chatterjee’s belief that Netflix’s existing leadership position in engagement and original content could vault Apple to the top of the streaming heap.

Our Robocall Nightmare May Be Coming to an End
Phone spam is out of control, but relief is in sight

An Expert’s Take on the Best Way to Do CES
Ignore the noise
CES, a massive consumer electronics event held in Las Vegas every year, doesn’t officially start until Tuesday. But if you’re a member of the media, it began weeks ago with a steady and unstoppable flow of entreaties to visit this or that booth and agreeing to keep an embargo on news that’s meant to be shared at a predetermined time. It’s the trade show’s version of pregaming but without the pleasant buzz.
Before CES officially opens, there’s a small sanctioned event called Unveiled that pools together all the gadgets, gizmos, and services you’re conditioned to care about. You can cover a lot of ground visiting that event alone, but it often misses the best of the show: the oddities and innovations collected in Eureka Park. The funky startup show at the Sands is packed full of entrepreneurs from countries around the world. The products are unusual, idiosyncratic, and always a highlight.
As you prepare to attend the 2019 show, or just read about the biggest announcements on tech sites, remind yourself that for all the spectacle of CES, some of the most worthwhile stuff is hidden away.

The Woman Who Sees Space First
Candice Hansen-Koharcheck is a firsthand witness to some of the most iconic images of outer space
For decades, space scientists could only speculate about what the surface of Mars looked like. It wasn’t until 1965 that NASA’s Mariner 4 spacecraft sent the first images of the red planet back to Earth. Today, spacecrafts on and around Mars continue to capture images that help the agency understand what our outer worlds look like.
Imagine being the person who sees these images before anyone else. That person is Candice Hansen-Koharcheck, the deputy principal investigator of the HiRISE camera on NASA’s Mars Reconnaissance Orbiter and one of the co-investigators on NASA’s Juno mission to Jupiter. Over her 40 years at NASA, Hansen-Koharcheck has been present for the capturing of some of the most iconic images of our solar system.
These photos are aesthetically stunning, but they also contain valuable scientific data. Before the HiRISE camera started documenting Mars in detail in 2006, scientists believed the planet was a barren, flat, lifeless world. “When we were designing the camera, the conventional wisdom was that Mars was monochrome,” Hansen-Koharcheck says. “It had this reddish tint everywhere, because everybody knew the global dust storms would redistribute that dust everywhere, and it would mask all the color on the surface.”
But the photos Hansen-Koharcheck got back from her camera revealed a blue Mars with a snakeskin-like terrain, active dunes, and rippling hills. “Who knew it was going to look like that?” she says. “This is a gorgeous planet, and it’s not all monochrome red.”

It’s Time to Say Goodbye to Our Beloved Mars Rover
The Opportunity Rover’s mission on Mars is coming to a close

The Forgotten Risk of Fitness Trackers
Fitbit launched a new personal fitness tracker for employees and members of health care plans—what are the downsides?

Voice Assistants Will Bring the Next Billion Users Online
Voice-forward phones could make the internet more accessible in the developing world

Apple Is Already Your Fitness Coach. Can It Be Your Cardiologist Too?
The number of Apple stores makes the company an accessible spot for health outreach

Why Conspiracy Theories Work so Well on Facebook
Are we all just clicks away from identifying as ‘flat-Earthers’?

A New Test Predicts When You’ll Die (Give or Take a Few Years)
And insurance companies are already interested

Is the Universe Real?
Rethinking the idea that makes you rethink reality

Meet the Alien Whisperer
How an astrophysicist uses dolphin and whale communication to prepare for possible alien contact
When astrophysicist Laurance Doyle was six, his father presented him with a map of the solar system and said, “The stars are other people’s suns.” The line sparked Doyle’s interest in space, and he’s been studying outer worlds ever since.
In the past, Doyle has worked on discovering exoplanets with NASA’s Kepler mission. Today, he’s leading a project that could be equally groundbreaking: building a framework for understanding alien languages.

Facebook’s Video Player Isn’t Designed for You

Inside the Experiment That Could End Infertility
In the future, we may be making eggs and sperm from our skin. A lot has to happen first.
The year is 2069, and you and your partner are ready to become parents. But like millions of others, you need reproductive technology to help make it happen. So you head to your local fertility clinic to drop off some samples. After a long wait in reception, a technician calls you into a private room. She asks you to roll up your sleeve, and after a quick procession of disinfectants and local anesthesia near your biceps, she punches out a piece of skin about the size of a pencil eraser and drops it into a tube of clear liquid.
“Remind me,” she says, “did you want sperm or eggs?”

A Bill of Rights for the Age of Artificial Intelligence
We should be concerned about the rights of all sentients as an unprecedented diversity of minds emerges
In 1950, Norbert Wiener’s The Human Use of Human Beings was at the cutting edge of vision and speculation in proclaiming:

AirPods Are Now One of Apple’s Most Important Products
As the iPhone becomes less relevant, the wearables will rise
Few Apple products have suffered the undue scorn and ridicule endured by AirPods.
Introduced in late 2016, Apple’s first wireless, Bluetooth earbuds were at first a joke and a meme machine. People thought they looked ridiculous and were certain they’d fall out of your ears and vanish without a trace.
Pictures of me wearing them from the launch event popped up here and there, often with an accompanying laughter emoji. College Humor called them “a legitimately terrible idea,” and perfectly summarized the key concerns (“you’re going to lose them IMMEDIATELY”; “one’s going to fall out of your ear and onto something gross”).
But more than two years and millions of units later, the $159 AirPods have become a Herculean success story. The accessory is now vital to Apple’s future, according to Tim Bajarin, a longtime Apple analyst and president of Creative Strategies, Inc.
“Voice is a new part of the man-to-machine interface, and getting info on demand through a headset tied to services is an important part of what will be [Apple’s] future AR strategy,” said Bajarin.
Even if that strategy has yet to be fully communicated to customers, they’re clearly warming to the once-maligned headset. Apple CEO Tim Cook went out of his way to highlight them in an earnings call last year. “This product is a runaway hit, and we’re working hard to meet the incredible demand,” he said.
AirPods sales have helped drive Apple’s wearable segment, which includes Apple Watch and Beats, to $10 billion in revenue between 2017 and 2018. Put simply, AirPods are a complete success.
This is somewhat surprising, because it took awhile for my perception of Apple’s AirPods to meet reality. When I reviewed the headphones in September 2016, people stared. In those first weeks and months of use, I got the same question over and over again: “Don’t they fall out?”

Our Tech Addiction Is Creating a ‘Toxic Soup’
It’s time to address the crisis
The pool at the bottom of the Lavender Pit pit is the color of rust, burnt red and bleeding. The pit is part of the inactive Copper Queen mining complex in Bisbee, Arizona. On the crater’s rim is a commemorative plaque that asks, “Why dig the pit?” Because, the plaque goes on to answer, “every electronic gizmo from refrigerators to iPods needs copper wiring.”

The Ongoing Mystery of How DNA Affects Intelligence
We know genes affect intelligence, but we’re years away from understanding how

Your iPhone Has a Hidden List of Every Location You’ve Been
It’s called the Significant Locations list, and you probably didn’t know it existed
Hiding in not-so-plain sight, deep within the depths of your iPhone’s settings (seven layers deep, to be exact) is a level of location tracking that very few iPhone users are aware of and probably won’t feel comfortable with.
Sure, many of us know that our iPhone generally tracks us when we use certain apps to enable it to share personalized information like the local weather, coffee shop recommendations, and more.
But in a quick survey I ran with some friends, not one person (out of dozens of people that I surveyed) knew where or how to navigate to this specific screen that I’m talking about here. It’s called the Significant Locations list.
For what it’s worth, Apple says this data isn’t shared without your permission. According to a support page outlining the company’s privacy policies for location services, the data collected by the Significant Locations feature “is encrypted and stored only on your device and will not be shared without your consent. It is used to provide you with personalized services, such as predictive traffic routing, and to build better Photos Memories.” You don’t need to worry about the data being used for marketing, or about an Apple employee snooping.
Still, Significant Locations is a stark reminder of how much data you generate through the simple act of walking around with your iPhone. And it’s similar to data that could be leveraged by other services when you grant them permission to access your location.
Now, I am actually a huge Apple fan. I generally fall on the side of being more open about sharing data and personal information with tech companies so as to improve my overall customized user experience. I know why they want the data, and I’m alright with it.
But when I first discovered this hidden location list, I felt it was a bit much, to say the least. The Significant Locations list shows a minute-by-minute route history of my exact whereabouts in every location I’ve been in over the past few years.
Step 1: Open the Settings app.
Step 2: Navigate to the Privacy section (small white hand, blue background).
Step 3: Click on Location Services.
Step 4: Scroll all the way to the bottom and click on System Services.
Step 5: Navigate to Significant Locations.

Google and Amazon Fought a Smart-Home Battle at CES 2019
Who won? It depends on how you look at it.
How much did consumers spend on smart-home technology in 2018? $31.4 billion. That’s how much, according to Statista. By 2022, it’ll be almost double that.

The Race to Diagnose Cancer With a Simple Blood Test
Liquid biopsies could transform cancer care as we know it
Five years ago, a team of researchers pored over the results of a prenatal genetic test given to more than 125,000 healthy pregnant women and made a stunning discovery. The blood test, marketed by gene-sequencing giant Illumina, was designed to detect chromosome anomalies associated with conditions such as Down syndrome by analyzing fragments of fetal DNA circulating in the mother’s blood.
In 3,757 of the tests, the scientists found at least one abnormality. But in 10 of those cases, further analysis revealed that the fetuses were in fact normal.
“In every one of those 10 cases, it turned out there was an undiagnosed cancer” in the mother, says Alex Aravanis, who at the time of the study was the senior director of research and development at Illumina.
To Aravanis and the other scientists, the unexpected result suggested a whole new opportunity: a single blood test for detecting multiple types of cancer before a person has any symptoms. “This was really important background science that [suggested] this might be possible,” says Aravanis, a founder and chief scientific officer at Grail, a Menlo Park, California–based startup launched three years ago by Illumina.
A so-called pan-cancer blood test would address a major barrier in substantially reducing the toll of the world’s second leading killer: Most cancers are diagnosed at advanced stages, when the prognosis is poor. Catching cancer early, when it has the best chance of being cured with surgery, could, theoretically, prevent cancer deaths and reduce the high costs of treating the disease.
“We do very well in improving lives of people whose cancers are screened and detected before symptoms occur,” says David Ahlquist, MD, a gastroenterologist at Mayo Clinic. “Five-year survival rates increase dramatically if cancer is detected at an early stage.”

The Next Blockbuster Drug Might Be Made in Space
Microgravity could be an ideal environment for cancer drug research
Nearly a decade before the first space shuttle left Earth, NASA wanted to make drugs in space. In a 1970 internal document, the agency suggested that the microgravity environment of space could be conducive to manufacturing and testing the efficacy of different kinds of pharmaceuticals.
Gravity poses logistical challenges for scientists working in the lab. On Earth, heavier materials sink to the bottom of test tubes and often clump together. In microgravity, however, the proteins that are needed to create medicine overcome these challenges and can grow freely. When working with proteins and cells in space, the purity of experiments can increase.
When the United States’ shuttle program was first proposed, the plan was to launch as many as 50 flights a year. The cost of this ambitious idea needed to be justified. It was suggested by NASA that perhaps astronauts working on the shuttle could work on a cure for cancer. Or discover a treatment for Parkinson’s. The possibilities were endless.
In 1982, NASA partnered with McDonnell Douglas (now Boeing). McDonnell Douglas designed a machine to test a process called electrophoresis, which is a way to separate macromolecules when studying DNA and RNA. Early results suggested that the space environment would make the experiment purification processes more efficient.
Rather than having NASA astronauts test the company’s machine, McDonnell Douglas proposed to NASA that the company send one of their own employees to work on the shuttle. Surprisingly, NASA said yes. Charlie Walker, the chief test engineer who helped build the machine, was selected, and became the first civilian to go to space. He recalls the company’s confidence in their research: “We took [the results] to NASA and they said if the company is willing to invest in [sending me to space] then we are willing to partner,” he tells Medium.
With two flights to space, Walker made history, but shortly after, in 1986, the Challenger shuttle exploded, killing the crew onboard. As a result of the devastating loss, private companies, that initially wanted to send their employees into space for research purposes, pulled back.
But today, the International Space Station (ISS) is fully operational, and typically has six members aboard who spend their days doing scientific research, like the testing of medical equipment, 3D printing, and even growing plants. Drug discovery is also now back in action.
In 2018, a company called Angiex Inc. was one of the lucky private drug companies to send an experiment up to the station. The principal investigator of the Angiex experiment, Shou-Ching Jaminet, is a molecular biologist and former researcher at Harvard Medical School. She’s studying the effects that microgravity has on endothelial cells, the types of cells that line our blood vessels.
In space, blood vessel cells don’t grow as well as they do on Earth, which might explain why astronauts have higher rates of cardiovascular problems. Angiex is working on a cancer therapy drug that destroys blood vessels in tumors. “We wanted to see if endothelial cells in microgravity are spared by our drug,” says Jaminet. Their research has implications for cancer treatment on Earth, and to help maintain the health of astronauts in space.
“Most other cell types are not that sensitive to microgravity… but blood vessel cells are different and that might explain some of the observations of astronauts health,” says Jaminet. “[Like why] they have higher rates of cardiovascular disease, even though they are generally healthier than the rest of us.”
She and her team got to watch their drug testing experiment live when astronaut Dr. Serena M. Auñón-Chancellor conducted it on board. Angiex only recently received their experiment results and the team is still in the middle of analyzing the data, but so far, Jaminet says they are pleased with the process.
Not everyone is confident that there’s money to be made in manufacturing drugs in space. “I don’t believe in any of it,” says John Logsdon, a space historian and former member of NASA’s advisory council. “I’m a skeptic that there is a pot of gold related to microgravity research. There are other commercial things to do with space but this particular idea has been tested enough to suggest that it is not really true.”
Others disagree. “I definitely think it’s cool and necessary,” says Walker. “I believe there will be numerous successes in our pursuits in terms of medical research and even corporate research.”
Ken Savin, director of the Center For Advancement and Science In Space (CASIS), which manages the ISS U.S. National Laboratory, agrees. “These companies are doing experiments and looking at research that they just couldn’t do on earth,” he says. Sure, research facilities on Earth try to mimic lesser gravity’s effect on cells, but ultimately if you really want to know what your experiment will be like in microgravity, you have to go to space.
Even if space-based drug discovery doesn’t turn out to be profitable, there remain benefits. Drugs stored on the space station have a much shorter shelf life than those stored on Earth, and only so much stock can be placed on a spacecraft. Part of the motivation for allowing pharmaceutical research to continue on the ISS is driven by the need to understand whether a mission crew could make their own drugs in space, if needed. Long-duration space missions are decades away, but should crews visit Mars as anticipated, they will likely stay for several months, not to mention that the round-trip to Mars takes over a year. Understanding how treatments behave in microgravity gives NASA insight into the best ways to keep future astronauts safe.

Why Apple’s Notification Bubbles Are so Stressful
Plus, the simple changes that could make a big difference

Your Phone’s Camera Isn’t as Good as You Think

The Climate Change Solution That Could Spark Global War
Superpowers will control geoengineering and all the damage that comes with it
It could be any country, but let’s say it’s Vietnam.

The Technology That Will Define 2019
A major iPhone shakeup, 5G, and even more bitcoin are on the horizon

Finally, Fusion Power Is About to Become a Reality
Long considered a joke, or a pipe dream, fusion is suddenly making enormous leaps
The idea first lit up Dennis Whyte when he was in high school, in the remote reaches of Saskatchewan, Canada, in the 1980s. He wrote a term paper on how scientists were trying to harness fusion (the physical effect that fuels the stars) in wondrously efficient power plants on Earth. This is the ultimate clean-energy dream. It would provide massive amounts of clean electricity, with no greenhouse gases or air pollution. It would do it on a constant basis, unlike solar and wind. Whatever waste it created would be easily manageable, unlike today’s nuclear power plants. And fuel would be limitless. One of the main ingredients needed for fusion is abundant in water. Just one little gram of hydrogen fuel for a fusion reactor would provide as much power as 10 tons of coal.
Whyte got an A on that paper, but his physics teacher also wrote: “It’s too complicated.” That comment, Whyte says with a hearty laugh, “was sort of a harbinger of things to come.”
Indeed, over the next few decades, as Whyte mastered the finicky physics that fusion power would require and became a professor at MIT, the concept seemingly got no closer to becoming reality. It’s not that the science was shaky: It’s that reliably bottling up miniature stars, inside complex machines on Earth, demands otherworldly amounts of patience, not to mention billions and billions of dollars. Researchers, like Whyte, knew all too well the sardonic joke about their work: fusion is the energy source of the future, and it always will be.

A Vision of the Dark Future of Advertising
Companies will know more about you than you can even imagine
It’s obvious that in 50 years the amount of data collected about us will be much, much larger than it is now. By the middle of the century, all of us will leave a comprehensive, high-definition, information-rich digital exhaust everywhere we go. As the cost of adding computer chips to objects falls, our baby monitors, coffee machines, Fitbits, energy meters, clothes, books, fridges, and facial expressions will all create data points. So will our public spaces, lampposts, storefronts, and traffic lights. A 70-year-old in 2069 will have had most of her life datafied. This is what most analysts complaining about Facebook or Google miss: The profiling and targeting of people has only just started.
Far more powerful computers than we have now will crunch through this. Though Moore’s law, the “golden rule” dictating that computing power doubles every two years, has recently slowed, it’s a safe bet that future computers will be several orders of magnitude more powerful and cheaper than ours.

There’s Nothing New at CES 2019
Welcome to the off year
There’s a question I always ask vendors at CES, the sprawling tech expo now underway in Las Vegas: Is this new?

The Blockchain Is a Reminder of the Internet’s Failure
The same utopian promises that bloomed during the Internet’s early days are back. Be afraid.
I remember the day I fell in love with the Internet as well as I remember the birth of my children. The summer of 1993; I was a reporter at the alt-weekly San Francisco Bay Guardian and my editor assigned me a story about an anime convention in Oakland, California. I asked the organizer of the conference where I could find some otaku (fanboys) to interview. “They all hang out on the Internet,” he said.
I didn’t have Internet access, but I had a modem and a CompuServe account that I used to exchange emails with my uncle. An hour spent lurking in a CompuServe anime forum sparked a life-changing epiphany. The online world, I realized instantly, was a fantastic reporting tool. I learned more about anime in that hour than I could have in a week spent tracking down interview subjects via landlines. I knew right away that I had to break out of the CompuServe walled garden and start homesteading the wild Internet.

The Long Goodbye
How NASA’s Deep Space Network said goodbye to three planet-hunting missions
On December 24, 1963, William Pickering, the director of NASA’s Jet Propulsion Laboratory, signed a letter officially creating the Deep Space Network (DSN). The NASA network is a series of large radio antennas that serve as the communication and navigation hub for all robotic spacecrafts that travel in deep space (anything from the moon and beyond).
In the 55 years since its initiation, the DSN has expanded and is now made up of three stations around the world: Goldstone, California; Madrid, Spain; and Canberra, Australia. Each station is home to one 70-meter antenna and three or four 34-meter antennas. These radio dishes are how NASA tracks and communicates with all of its robotic missions in space. (You can watch humans on Earth talking to spacecrafts in deep space at DSN Now.)
This year, the DSN witnessed several missions achieve impressive feats, including the most recent landing of the spacecraft InSight on Mars, where it will probe beneath the planet’s surface to learn more about Mars’ formation. The DSN also experienced three major spacecraft losses this year, and while those spacecrafts’ discoveries will be mined for years to come, their departures can feel grief-inducing for followers.
In 2018, an unexpectedly timed global dust storm enveloped the entirety of Mars, severing NASA’s connection to the solar-powered Opportunity Rover. “Once the storm abated, we started the process of trying to regain contact, and so far, not a peep or a beep,” says Glen Nagle, the outreach lead at the Canberra Deep Space Communication Center, who has worked at the DSN for 17 years. “We all feel for this rover. The anguish comes in empathy for the people whose careers are built around that rover.”
In 2004, Opportunity landed on Mars with its twin rover named Spirit. The rovers explored different regions of the planet and operated well beyond their planned 90-day missions. Opportunity, more formally known as MER-B (Mars Exploration Rover-B), spent the past 14 years on the planet. During that time, it discovered evidence of Mars’ history, including small mineral spheres that NASA calls “blueberries,” which are likely leftovers from the planet’s watery past.
While there remains hope that Opportunity will call home again one day, NASA also lost two missions this year that won’t be recovered. The Kepler spacecraft, launched in March 2009, was an all-star for exoplanet discovery. Its mission was to discover planets outside our solar system, and it found more than 2,000 exoplanets orbiting around other stars. When Kepler began sending data back to the DSN, the news of new exoplanets was enough to knock you out of your seat. Thanks to Kepler, we now know that most stars have planets encircling them. Since there are hundreds of billions of stars in our galaxy alone, this discovery has fundamentally changed the world’s view of the universe. Of course, it also raises questions about the likelihood of life existing beyond our solar system.
Kepler operated for nine years before it ran out of fuel on October 30. Richard Stephenson, a longtime DSN operator at the Canberra station, was one of the operators who sent the command to shut down the spacecraft’s communications. “You can easily superimpose human feeling onto the spacecraft you support,” he says. “This is due mainly to the interface with the mission [team] itself. You pick up on their excitement, concerns, or sadness through the voices you hear. When the ‘goodnight’ command was sent to the Kepler spacecraft, I confirmed with the [team] when I saw the spacecraft transmitter switch off for the last time. You could hear their sadness, and I couldn’t help but feel sad as well.”
Also this year, the DSN lost contact with the Dawn mission, a space probe launched by NASA in September 2007 that is in orbit around the dwarf planet Ceres. Dawn was sent on a mission to look into the “dawn” of the solar system. It was the first spacecraft to orbit two planetary bodies, first visiting the asteroid Vesta in 2011 before arriving at Ceres in 2015. Vesta is one of the oldest asteroids ever discovered and is believed to be a time capsule of the early solar system. And while Ceres is a dwarf planet that resides in the asteroid belt, scientists believe it formed much farther out and later migrated in. After 11 successful years, Dawn also ran out of fuel. One day, it stopped calling home. “You feel sorry for the people who have endowed so much of their life in it,” Stephenson says. “For them, a chapter has just finished.”
Even with the loss of Kepler and Dawn and the silence from Opportunity, the DSN remains constantly busy. After all, it was the only network of dishes powerful enough to communicate with the stranded Apollo 13 astronauts, and it’s still the only way for spacecrafts that travel beyond the moon to talk to Earth. Suzy Dodd, director of the Interplanetary Network Directorate at JPL that manages the DSN, leads NASA’s ongoing Voyager mission. Twin intrepid spacecrafts were launched from Earth in 1977 on a mission to explore every single outer planet: Jupiter, Saturn, Uranus, and Neptune. “The connection between Voyager and the DSN is beautiful,” Dodd says. “It takes a lot of antennas to talk to Voyager, because it’s so far away, basically about four times as far as Neptune to us. Voyager 1’s signal is over 20 hours one way. You need a lot of antennas just to get a very faint signal.”

Stop Putting Humans in ‘Transformers’ Movies
The case for movies exclusively about giant robots fighting each other
Please imagine what Star Trek: The Next Generation would be like if Wesley Crusher had been the main character. Or if Indiana Jones and the Temple of Doom followed only his sidekick, Short Round. Or Friends, seen entirely through the eyes of Marcel the Monkey. None of these sound good or even make sense, right? So why are the stars of the Transformers movies humans instead of, you know… Transformers?
If you only know the franchise because of Michael Bay’s five incredibly popular yet truly awful films, which all have humans in the leading roles, it might never have occurred to you to consider a Transformers movie without a bankable Hollywood lead like Mark Wahlberg or Shia LaBoeuf (okay, well, previously bankable) as the main character. In fact, I bet some of you are trying to imagine Bay’s movies without the human characters in them and having a hard time figuring out how the movie would be more than 45 minutes or so.

Buying an Apple Product Will Always Hurt
Why the best thing Apple can do is confuse the heck out of you
Our ancestors knew the pleasure of leaves crunching underfoot. We know the delight of peeling the plastic from a new iPhone.
Eventually, that new-gadget feeling fades. The time comes to buy a newer, better product. For those in Apple’s ecosystem in particular, the process can become a blur of comparison shopping. There are eight modern iPhones to choose from if you count the Plus models and last year’s iPhone X; four Apple Watch options; five iPads; and seven Macs before you even start to adjust their specs.
Though the rate at which people replace their old phones has slowed, they’re still upgrading within two years on average, and Apple sold more than 216 million iPhones last year. The dizzying cost-benefit calculation happens all the time.
“It is very hard to know that the ‘best’ is, and this drives maximizers to look at what others have,” says Barry Schwartz, author of The Paradox of Choice and a professor of social theory at Swarthmore College.

Smart Home Technology Is Still Not Smart Enough
Get ready for disappointment when you unwrap “smart” gadgets this year

Game of Thrones’ Final Season Is Destined to Disappoint You

To Combat Thieves, Farmers are Spraying their Goods with an Invisible, Data-Encrypted Liquid
But is SMARTWATER CSI just ‘scientific hogwash’?
It started about two years ago, when David Machado was held up at gunpoint. He was working in his shop in Tulare, the county seat of Tulare County, California, when he heard the house alarm go off. He jogged to the home he shares with his wife and saw a car parked out front. Initially, he thought the car belonged to a friend. Perhaps someone had accidentally pushed open the front door, which had a faulty latch. He went around to the back door and turned off the alarm. Then he heard the car horn.
Walking back outside, Machado said he confronted three men. One pointed a gun at his chest. “I just went like this,” Machado said, lifting his empty hands in the air, “and the guy standing behind him says, ‘Shoot his ass! Shoot his ass!” After a few tense moments, the men jumped into the car and left. They only got one thing: a rosary that belonged to Machado’s grandmother-in-law.
Machado has carried a pistol ever since, but the break-ins have only increased. Once, he said, he and his wife had just returned from watching his grandchildren in a Christmas program when he heard someone throw a large stone through a bedroom window. Two men were trying to crawl in through the broken glass. Machado fired a shot into the ground to scare them away.
About a week after that, he said someone kicked down the back door and stole an air rifle. He trailed the thief around town, until he lost sight of him. “We had five incidents in about two months,” explained Machado, a compact but sprightly man with a neatly trimmed gray beard, weathered face, and quick smile.
After yet another break-in, during which someone tore open the metal wall of his farm’s workshop, Machado’s friend in the Tulare County District Attorney’s Office called him and said, “Hey, we gotta do something. This is getting old.” Machado agreed.
Their solution was SmartWater CSI, a colorless, odorless liquid that turns a yellowish hue when placed underneath a UV black light. Marketed as the ultimate theft deterrent, it comes in a nail polish–sized vial with a swab applicator. According to its manufacturer, 10 minutes after application, SmartWater will dry and remain on any nonskin surface for at least five years. But traces of SmartWater also rub off on anyone who touches it, staining skin and clothing. Theoretically, anyone trying to grab something from Machado’s workshop would get SmartWater all over their hands, leaving stains traceable by law enforcement.
In January 2018, deputies from the Tulare County Sheriff’s Office set up a trap, parking a trailer and generator outside Machado’s workshop, both wired with GPS and covered in SmartWater. They waited, but no one came. A month later, Machado pulled the trailer into his workshop. That night, the alarm went off. Machado grabbed his shotgun and pistol and went to check it out.

A Pill for Loneliness
Inside the hunt for drugs that ease the effects of isolation on the brain
Loneliness is part of the human condition. A primeval warning sign, like hunger or thirst, to seek out a primary resource: connection. Millions of years of evolution have shaped us into creatures who need social bonds in the same way that we need food and water.
And yet we increasingly find ourselves isolated. Loneliness is no longer a powerful enough driver to break us out of the silos created by modern life. Like our insatiable love of high-calorie foods, what was once an adaptive tool has become so misaligned with the way we live that it’s causing, in the words of former surgeon general Vivek H. Murthy, an “epidemic.”
It’s hard to compare our collective loneliness against that of previous generations, as we simply haven’t been measuring it consistently, but recent estimates suggest that anywhere from 22 to 75 percent of American adults are persistently lonely. A number of culture-wide structural changes might be to blame: More Americans live alone than ever before; fewer of us are marrying or having children; our average household size is shrinking. In many cases, these changes represent the availability of options where once the only accepted path was marriage and a nuclear family. But they also mean we are spending more time on our own. “Western societies have demoted human gregariousness from a necessity to an incidental,” writes John Cacioppo, a neuroscientist who studied social pain and passed away in March 2018, in his book Loneliness.
The trouble is that chronic loneliness doesn’t just make you feel terrible—it’s also terrible for you. Loneliness elevates our risk of developing a range of disorders, including cardiovascular disease, neurodegenerative diseases, cognitive decline, and metastatic cancer. It also weakens the immune system, making us more susceptible to infections. Left untended, even situational loneliness can ossify into a fixed state that changes brain structures and processes, says Stephanie Cacioppo, director of the Brain Dynamics Lab at the University of Chicago Pritzker School of Medicine. She is also John Cacioppo’s widow and was his research partner up until his death last year.
As a scientist, Stephanie Cacioppo has often viewed her life as an experiment. When John died, the practical elements of their joint research took on an urgent personal relevance. “My husband was the love of my life,” she says.
People sometimes compare social loss to physical pain, but Stephanie finds the analogy inaccurate. After John’s death, she went on long runs, pushing herself in near-freezing temperatures until her muscles and lungs screamed. “I could handle the pain because I knew it would have an end,” she says. “The physical pain associated with running was less intense than the deep, heartfelt emotional pain of the loss of the love of my life.”
Stephanie says she’s now relying on many of the social fitness exercises that the couple validated together, such as making an effort to express gratitude, doing something nice for someone else without expecting something in return, choosing to engage with strangers, and sharing good news with others. “I am living proof of my science,” she says. “I apply it every day.”
She has also found relief in her work and in continuing her husband’s legacy: “If you have a sense of worth and life with a purpose, you will feel less lonely,” Stephanie says. Today, that means continuing a body of research that she and her late husband were beginning to explore: a pill for loneliness.

A New Vision for the Future of Driving
At CES, car companies are showcasing new designs that will fundamentally alter the automotive experience
If the last 15 years was the age of the smartphone, the next 15 promise to be the dawn of the smart car.
Our stalwart, four-wheel friends are riding a wave of interest and innovation to become the most important mobile technology in our lives. And nowhere is this trend more evident than at CES 2019.
Spurred by the rise of mobile broadband, zero-emission technologies, and the promise of self-driving vehicles, auto tech has attracted the attention not just of traditional car manufacturers, but of software, hardware, and silicon companies.
In my first 48 hours at CES’s parade of private and press events, I lost track of how many companies mentioned cars, autonomy, integrated intelligence, and the incredible promise of 5G for car-to-car communication.

The Golden Age of the iPhone Is Ending
As the smartphone market changes, Apple may be losing its edge
“Don’t bet against Apple.” That’s my go-to mantra when someone asks me about Apple’s future as a market leader, or the success of any new iPhone. If the company’s performance this quarter didn’t wow you, the next one probably will.
Yet the wind is clearly shifting for the iPhone, with intensifying worries about sales figures, diminishing global demand for smartphones overall, rumors that Apple won’t make the 5G leap for another year, and the company’s startling decision to stop disclosing unit sales for iOS devices and Macs in its financial reports. Though you’d be foolish to doubt Apple’s prospects, the status quo for its star product is, after many years, changing.
It’s no secret that much of Apple’s recent success has been driven by the now 11-year-old iPhone. Its rocket-like sales trajectory really began in 2009, after Apple introduced the App Store, a platform that transformed the iPhone from a beautiful gadget into a genuinely useful pocket device. Over the next decade, it narrowed our gaze from a wide vista to the distance between our eyes.
Year-over-year iPhone sales grew by tens of millions, with post-holiday quarters setting monumental records. Looked at in isolation, it’s easy to think that Apple dominates the market, especially if you spend most of your time in the United States, where the iPhone has a commanding 39 percent market share compared to its nearest rival, Samsung, which has 25 percent of the U.S. market. In the global market, Apple trails Samsung and Huawei.
Apple and the iPhone are not immune to larger smartphone market forces. Smartphone sales growth has slowed over the last few years, and, perhaps thanks to market saturation, may even be in decline.
Tuong Nguyen, a senior principal analyst at Gartner, told me via email that although there’s been evidence of a slowing phone market for some time, Apple’s position as a higher-end brand and the overall prestige of the iPhone name may have shielded it a bit.
“Apple’s competitors have experienced it more acutely due to their broader exposure to the market,” Nguyen said.
Still, that Apple cachet, which was so obvious in the original iPhone, has gradually slipped away.
It’s hard to be special when the entire handset industry has coalesced around a handful of smartphone design principles. All-screen, notched displays with multiple cameras on the front and back are everywhere. A $549 OnePlus 6 looks, from the front, a lot like an $1,199 iPhone XS Max. Even the tiny Palm Phone is a knockoff of the iPhone X design.

Nothing Can Stop Google. DuckDuckGo Is Trying Anyway.
2019 may finally be the year for ‘The Search Engine That Doesn’t Track You’

This Is Silicon Valley
I feel myself becoming part of the machine
I am privileged to live in Silicon Valley. I was born here, I grew up here, and now I work here as a product manager at Google. The weather is lovely, the crime rate is low, and the schools are well funded. The adults have cushy jobs and the kids have endless resources. People feast on $15 sushirritos and $6 Blue Bottle coffees. The streets are filled with Teslas and self-driving cars.

Apple’s App Store Is the Monopoly You Want
It’s not perfect, but neither is the case against it
Class-action lawsuits do not always represent the will or best interest of the people. Such is the case with Apple Inc. v. Pepper, a several years old antitrust case against Apple that simply refuses to die. A loss for Apple in this case would mean greater confusion and worse options for consumers on iOS.
Some quick background: In 2011, Robert Pepper and a few other iPhone customers sued Apple, alleging it was monopolizing control of the app market via the iOS App Store. If you have an iPhone, that App Store is the only way to purchase and download new apps without jailbreaking your device. As the lawsuit sees it, Apple used that control to essentially force a 30 percent markup on all paid apps because the company takes a 30 percent commission on each App Store transaction. This commision makes apps on iOS more expensive than they would otherwise be in an open app market, the argument goes.
Initially, that case didn’t go so well. A district court ruled in favor of Apple, which argued that while it offers apps on behalf of developers, those developers are the ones setting the prices and putting them up for sale in the iOS App Store. Though Apple may take a commission on the sale of apps and any in-app purchases, it’s not engineering a price markup.
But a couple of years ago, the Ninth Circuit Court of Appeals got a hold of the case when Pepper and Co. continued to appeal the lower court’s ruling and decided that consumers could sue after all. The court saw a direct seller-buyer relationship between Apple and its app consumers. Last week, the case made its way to the Supreme Court, which must decide if consumers are buying from Apple or the app developers who use its platform. The former would mean that consumers have the right to sue Apple.

How Automated Tools Discriminate Against Black Language
Platforms can have the power to moderate not just content, but language itself

Cowboy Bebop Is Hollywood’s Best Chance at Doing Anime Right
Netflix’s plans for the TV series may finally give Japanese cartoons a shot at live-action success

Should Twitter Get Rid of Follower Counts?
The possibility feels closer than ever
If Twitter was a megaphone, you’d measure its volume through follower counts. The difference between an account with 45 followers and an account with 45,000 is like the difference between a grade school music class and a concert at Madison Square Garden.
As a legacy element of Old Twitter, follower count has long been the benchmark of user popularity and reach. But with the platform struggling to control waves of troll attacks, abuse, and fake accounts, one has to wonder if the metric should stick around.
Twitter co-founder and current CEO Jack Dorsey has stopped short of chucking it, though he’s clearly doing some soul-searching. Late last year, he told an audience in New Delhi that developers didn’t give much thought to how prominent the metric was in the social network’s original interface.
“We did not really think much about it and moved on to the next problem to solve,” Dorsey reportedly said. “… we put all the emphasis, not intending to, on that number of, how many people follow me. So, if that number is big and bold, what do people want to do with it? They want to make it go up.”
Early Twitter prominently featured a site member’s follower number near the top of the right-hand column. Above it, though, was a metric Twitter no longer publicly tracks: “Friends,” or the number of your followers that you followed back. It aligned neatly with one of Twitter’s earliest taglines (from September 2006), which read, “Twitter is for staying in touch and keeping up with friends, no matter where you are or what you’re doing.” Two months later, the text was amended and Twitter was now: “A global community of friends and strangers answering one simple question: What are you doing?”
That update opened the door to “strangers,” which might explain more about today’s ongoing follower fixation than anyone realizes. After all, if Twitter is about letting “strangers” know what you’re doing, then it’s a broadcast platform. Broadcasting doesn’t work without an audience, and, to build one and be heard, a broadcaster needs followers.

Why Gen Z Loves Closed Captioning
Old technology finds a surprising new application
“Everyone does it.”
These were the words from my college-aged daughter when I caught her lounging on our couch, streaming Friends with 24-point closed captioning on. She has no hearing impairment, and I wanted to know what she was up to.
Does “everyone” do it? My wife and I turned to Facebook and a private, nationwide group for parents with near-adult children. “Anyone else’s college student (without a hearing disability) watch TV with the closed captioning on and insist that everyone does it?” my wife posted. Seven hundred responses (and counting) later, we had our answer.
Many parents expressed similar confusion with the TV-watching habits of their millennial and Gen Z children, often followed with, “I thought it was just us.”
I returned to my daughter, who had now switched to the creepy Lifetime import You.
“Why do you have captions on?” I asked.
“It helps me with my ADHD: I can focus on the words, I catch things I missed, and I never have to go back,” she replied. “And I can text while I watch.”
My multitasking daughter used to watch TV while working on her laptop and texting or FaceTiming on her phone. She kept rewinding the DVR to catch the last few minutes she’d missed because she either zoned out or was distracted by another screen.

The Bogus Tech ‘Deals’ to Avoid This Holiday Season

Why ‘Contact’ Is the Most Important Space Movie Ever Made
The film inspired a generation of scientists

Amazon Has a White Man Problem
Beyond social justice, experts call it a business liability

Nike and Boeing Are Paying Sci-Fi Writers to Predict Their Futures
Welcome to the Sci-Fi industrial complex
One of the most influential product prototypes of the 21st century wasn’t dreamed up in Cupertino or Mountain View. Its development began around a half-century ago, in the pages of a monthly pulp fiction mag.

Flickr’s Big Change Proves You Can’t Trust Online Services
Here’s a scary warning for anyone who puts their photos in the cloud
I need a digital moving van.
I have 60 days to relocate more than 2,100 images from their home on Flickr to another safe digital haven. The once popular photo-sharing destination announced this month that it’s limiting free membership accounts to just 1,000 images. If you want unlimited storage, you’ll have to pay $50 a year. Don’t pay up? The service will delete old photographs until you’re at the 1,000-image limit.
I already pay almost $40 a year for iCloud storage and another $99 a year for the 1 Terabyte (TB) of space that comes with my Office 365 account. I’ll skip the extra bill.

Stan Lee’s Other Legacy
The comic book legend’s work didn’t just shape pop culture. It changed lives, too.

The ‘Escape to Mars’ Plan Has a Fatal Flaw
Elon Musk and other futurists are missing something big
Mars, our neighboring red dot, has been the focus of human exploration for hundreds of years. Science fiction writers, scientists, and explorers alike have spent decades imagining what life would be like if humankind could pick up and move there. Never mind the radiation, lack of oxygen, and inhospitable atmosphere. According to some billionaires and scientists, Mars is our future.
The private space industry has exploded, with companies like SpaceX, Blue Origin, and Virgin Galactic all designing spacecrafts to bring people to the cosmos and orbit the earth as tourists, or, in SpaceX’s case, to set up a massive settlement of humans on Mars.
But the field of space exploration is at an ethical impasse.
Let’s set aside for a moment the fact that space travel is difficult and risky, and that people could die on the journey. Critics of privatized space travel also take issue with the implications these companies are built on. What does it mean when a company makes it their goal to colonize an entire planet?
The desire to become interplanetary harkens back to the 19th century, when colonizers believed it was their God-given right to expand out to the west and take over land and communities. The adoption of Mars as a second home is the Manifest Destiny of the 21st century. Even the language is problematic. “Colonize Mars” is one of the phrases private companies use most often to describe their grand plans. SpaceX sells a T-shirt that reads “Occupy Mars.”
“These issues intersect with so many lessons that we have here on Earth, be it the rights of indigenous people or the way we even think about a wild environment,” says Lucianne Walkowicz, the Baruch S. Blumberg NASA Chair of Astrobiology at the Kluge Center, and astronomer at the Adler Planetarium who studies the ethics of Mars exploration.
Throughout history, colonization has resulted in mass deaths, the spread of disease, and the decimation or suppression of native cultures. Yet these issues are rarely discussed among Mars colonization planners. Some think Mars is a dead planet, covered in a fine layer of rusty dirt, rocks, and some frozen water. But despite our constant and steady exploration of Mars over the past 50 years, it’s unknown whether life exists there, or ever did. “We don’t know whether there is a history that we could study there or learn about,” Walkowicz says. “We don’t know whether there is life under the surface. There could be microbial communities. There could be more complicated stuff. We just don’t know.”
Space moguls like Elon Musk brush off the issue. During a panel interview at the annual American Geophysical Union meeting in 2015, Musk was asked about planetary protection measures. “I think the reality is that there isn’t any life on the surface of Mars,” he responded. “There may be microbial life deep underground, where it’s shielded from radiation and the cold. That’s a possibility, but in that case, anything we do on the surface is not going to have a big impact on the subterranean life.”
Experts don’t necessarily agree with Musk’s view and argue that more research is needed before declaring that there’s nothing worth preserving on the planet.

The Least Imaginative Holiday Gift Is the One Everyone Will Be Getting
When everything’s a screen, where’s the fun in shopping?
Tech companies are asking one big question this holiday season: Which screen do you want to unwrap?
There is a banality to the would-be gadget gifts introduced in 2018. So many of them are large, flat panes of glass, dark and featureless until you power them up. It makes you long for the days of a Lionel Train marking its circuitous route around the Christmas tree.

Where Do Our Sex Dolls Go After We Die?
Companions in life, sex dolls can become embarrassing detritus when we die
“Davecat,” a 46-year-old data entry specialist, lives alone in his 600-square-foot apartment outside Detroit, Michigan, but he’s by no means lonely. He has his “wife” of 18 years: Sidore, a RealDoll he lovingly calls his “Missus.” Blood doesn’t flow through her veins, and she can’t eat the eel sushi Davecat purchases them for dinner, but you wouldn’t know it by the way Davecat jokes with her, touches her milky-white shoulder, and plays with her shoulder-length purple hair.
“I’ve always thought of human-shaped things… things like mannequins and, in particular, dolls, as having lives of their own,” Davecat told me via Skype, with Sidore beside him. “I believe they have their own ‘soul.’ I view them as people.”
For someone who may live in a fantasy, Davecat is exceptionally self-aware. (Like other sex-doll owners I spoke with, he requested I use his online identity to preserve anonymity.) He cracks jokes from Sidore’s Twitter account about being a “Synthetik,” describing her grabbing a glass of water in the middle of the night only to realize she can’t drink. He’s also acutely mindful of the fact that he, unlike Sidore, is going to die one day, which is why he’s already devised a meticulous plan for what happens to her when he does.
Davecat would like his body to be cremated, with the ashes stored in a bag and placed into Sidore’s hollow head. “She’s always on my mind in life; I’ll always be on her mind in death,” he says. Then, his best friend will move Sidore into her home where she’ll sit indefinitely in a glass case holding a plaque that reads, “How terrible it is to love something that death can touch.” She’ll wear a mofuku, a traditional Japanese mourning kimono, as well as the necklace he gave her when he first brought her home nearly two decades ago.
This plan is subject to change, as Davecat is hoping to gift Sidore with a robotic body for their 20th anniversary, in which case her once-empty head would be filled with hardware. Should this happen, he’ll likely have his remains pressed into a diamond that she’ll wear around her neck and close to the place her heart would be, were she human.
As for Davecat’s other three dolls, they’ll go off to live with other “iDollators,” an affectionate term for people who, like Davecat, love and collect dolls. One recipient will be Davecat’s good friend artist Amber Hawk Swanson, who became famous for purchasing and “marrying” a life-size doll made in her likeness named Amber Doll. “It’s a close-knit community where we can take care of each other should anything happen,” Davecat says.

What Happens to Religion When We Find Aliens?
A Rabbi, an Imam, and a Christian theologian on what life in space could mean for the spiritual

What I Learned From Watching 33 Hallmark Christmas Movies
The semi-heartwarming saga of two people and countless tales of holiday schmaltz
On October 27, the Hallmark Channel began its annual “Countdown to Christmas” movie series with Christmas at Pemberly Manor. You read that right: Since 2016, the channel’s traditional slate of original holiday movies has started before Halloween. How else could Hallmark air 37 entirely new Christmas films before the end of the year?

The Ultimate Guide to ‘Fantastic Beasts 2’
Answers to all your questions about the mess that is ‘The Crimes of Grindelwald’
Were you one of the millions of people who saw the much-anticipated, Harry Potter–adjacent Fantastic Beasts 2: The Crimes of Grindelwald this past week? Were you confused by it? Maybe even a little irritated? Are you interested in knowing what happens but don’t want to sit through the movie’s nonsense? Don’t worry! I have all the answers for you right here. (This should go without saying, but yes, massive spoilers ahead.)
A bunch of wizards run maniacally around Paris until Johnny Depp gives a TED Talk.
Credence Barebone (Ezra Miller), the teen Obscurial who can turn into a deadly ball of black mist, has gone to Paris in the hopes of finding his real mother. Grindelwald, now in full-time Johnny Depp mode after briefly being Colin Farrell in the first film, escapes from magic jail by killing a bunch of people, then heads to Paris with an unnecessarily dramatic scheme to get Credence to join him.
Because he believes the Obscurial is the only person who can defeat Dumbledore, who is the only wizard who can stop Grindelwald from his plan of conquering the nonmagical world.
Noted fantastic beast–lover Newt Scamander (Eddie Redmayne) has been guilted by young Dumbledore (Jude Law) into breaking the law and going to Paris to find Credence before Grindelwald does. This is illegal, because Newt has been banned from international travel after he and his fantastic beasts nearly exposed the secret world of wizards and witches to the general public approximately 18 billion times in the first movie because he couldn’t get around to fixing his damn suitcase. He brings the same suitcase to Paris, of course.
They are indeed. Tina the Auror (Katharine Waterston) has gone to Paris to track down Credence herself. Newt’s nonmagical pal Jacob (Dan Folger) and Tina’s sister Queenie (Alison Sudol) visit Newt in London before he leaves for Paris.
Yes and no; yes because that was the intention of the Obliviate spell, which has been used throughout the world to keep nonmagical humans from knowing about magic, but it’s explained that Obliviate erases only bad memories, and most of what Jacob experienced in the first movie was good, so he never forgot it. This seems to me to be a huge liability for the spell and a problem that should have come up in the many centuries wizards have been hiding from humans prior to 1927, when the movie takes place.
Anyways, the sweet, dimwitted Queenie has enchanted Jacob, so he has no control over his thoughts, feelings, or actions.
It’s so creepy. She cast a love spell on him and dragged him to England, where it’s legal for wizards to marry Muggles. Her plan is to marry him and have a big family… all while he can’t consent.
Not at all. Jacob explains in the movie that he does love her, but since it’s illegal for wizards to cohabit with humans in the United States, he wasn’t going to endanger her by doing so. Queenie decided to take matters into her own hands.

Why ‘Venom’ Is the Best Kind of Box Office Poison
How Sony turned a Spider-Man movie without Spider-Man into an unlikely success
On the list of clues suggesting we’ve all fallen into an alternate timeline where the entire world has gone wrong, the fact that a movie about a Spider-Man villain where Spider-Man is literally never once mentioned just made $200 million this weekend should be near the bottom. It’s not awful—it’s just not supposed to happen. But it definitely did.

A Grown Man’s Love Letter to She-Ra
A celebration of the groundbreaking ’80s cartoon before it returns to TV
Growing up, I had a friend, a real good guy. We used to hang out all the time, before school and after, and I remember all the crazy adventures we used to go on, although I tended to just be a spectator. One day, after we’d been pals for years, he casually mentioned that he had a sister. I was flabbergasted! He’d never mentioned her before or given any indication she existed. The next day, he brought her over, and I fell immediately in love.
That friend’s name was He-Man, and his sister was She-Ra.
Let me assure you: This is not going to be a tale of a grown man having the hots for an animated character. I was only eight when She-Ra debuted in “The Secret of the Sword,” a special five-episode He-Man and the Masters of the Universe cartoon event in 1985, and then, as now, my affection went far deeper than mere beauty. The reason I loved She-Ra and why I am so excited for Netflix’s She-Ra and the Princesses of Power reboot series (premiering November 13) is because of everything she represented and the way her existence expanded my reality.
That’s an admittedly heavy load to put on a character created by toymaker Mattel and animation studio Filmation as a naked cash grab to see if they can adapt their blockbuster He-Man franchise to capture a female audience. Certainly, the character and the animated series is a clone of He-Man and Masters of the Universe, down to the way Adora raises aloft her magic sword and says, “For the honor of Grayskull!” to turn into She-Ra, just as her brother Prince Adam bellows, “By the power of Grayskull!” to turn into He-Man. The toys are different in that She-Ra action figures have hair to brush and various outfits to wear. But overall, the blueprint is the same.
This is why I and other boys my age watched the She-Ra cartoon as religiously as He-Man, despite it ostensibly being for girls, which would otherwise have been taboo in the rigidly gender-divided world of ’80s children’s entertainment. Just as He-Man fought the evil Skeletor and his minions on the planet of Eternia, so did She-Ra fight the evil Hordak and his Horde on the planet of Etheria. Just as He-Man’s pals, the Masters of the Universe, all had one defining characteristic/power/gimmick (Stratos could fly, Ram-Man rammed things, Fisto had a big metal fist, etc.), so did She-Ra’s Princesses of Power, including Mermista, Castaspella, and Netossa (I’ll let you guess those).
By using He-Man as its template and targeting a female audience, She-Ra bridged that gap. Both were action-fantasy series; the only difference is that in one, the heroes kicking evil’s collective ass were female. In a world of what were known as “girly” shows, like Rainbow Brite and My Little Pony, where characters were designed to emphasize doll-like cuteness and stories were about as complex as a Lisa Frank Trapper Keeper, She-Ra looked like she came out of Conan the Barbarian, even if she also solved more conflicts with friendship and love than with her sword.
The fact that She-Ra was introduced through the He-Man and the Masters of the Universe cartoon made it a seamless transition, and Mattel very cannily put She-Ra’s villains in the Masters of the Universe toy line, meaning that if boys wanted to see those cool characters in action, we’d need to be watching She-Ra anyway. Plus, sometimes there would be other crossovers between the two shows, and He-Man would stop by Etheria to help his sister out. He-Man and She-Ra were my first introduction to the idea of a shared universe of storytelling, and it blew my little-kid mind.

Star Wars’ Biggest Blunder Isn’t What You Think
The most legitimate problem with the franchise is the one everyone’s forgotten
To say that nerds had problems with The Last Jedi is a vast understatement. Many lamented that the 2017 film was “inauthentic” Star Wars and, almost a year later, are still kvetching about how anything it portrayed outside the boundaries defined in the original trilogy is simply unacceptable. This is dumb for about a hundred reasons, but one of the biggest is that the original three Star Wars movies had the most epic, most awful blunder in the entire franchise: Luke and Leia kissing.
And this sums up the biggest problem with grown-up nerds.
I’m talking specifically about those fans, primarily in their thirties and forties, who feel shortchanged by the newest installments, remakes, and reboots of the franchises they grew up with. These fans argue that modern-day renditions are not wholly faithful to and are therefore worse than the originals they’re modeled on. They hold dear what they watched and read and played with in the 1970s and ’80s and almost always find major flaws with any new version.
Because Star Wars fandom is so large, this subsection of nerds is accordingly bigger and thus more prominent, which is why the declaration that The Last Jedi was somehow wrong sounded so damned loud. Fans were aghast that the movie dared expand the Force and its powers. Some were traumatized to see their childhood hero Luke Skywalker transformed into a hermit (myself included, although I liked the movie). Then there were the nitwits up in arms that women and minorities had speaking roles. Still, these fans all had two things in common: a sense of ownership over the franchise and a perception of A New Hope, The Empire Strikes Back, and Return of the Jedi as perfect, inviolate entities to which all new Star Wars movies must be compared.
In reality, the original trilogy is far from perfect. Any adult who watches the originals with fresh eyes can discern that these beloved movies have significant issues (and I bet most modern kids can, too). The dialogue frequently borders on painful, the timelines are a mess (Luke trained with Yoda for a week, tops?), and using the Death Star twice in three movies is lame as hell. When I was growing up, every Star Wars fan I knew hated the Ewoks with a passion; after the prequels and Jar Jar Binks, the warrior teddy bears have been forgiven and are as beloved as anything else from the Star Wars universe of 1977 to 1983.
The fact that the Ewoks have become retroactively great among older fans is proof enough that their complaints about the “correct” Star Wars are frivolous and futile. But there’s an even more damning example, because somehow we’ve all given a free pass to the fact that the heroic siblings Luke and Leia kissed. Twice.

The Paradox of Jughead’s Hat
The strange reason Riverdale star Cole Sprouse wears a cap from a bygone era

Confessions of a 40-Year-Old Mega-Nerd
I have gotten old, but I have somehow failed to grow up
It happens every day. Like so many fortysomethings who aren’t interested in having a heart attack and dying just yet, I take a pill to combat my high blood pressure. Unlike many of my peers, however, when I take this pill at the desk in my home office, I do so while surrounded by action figures. Rey from The Force Awakens. Soundwave from Transformers. He-Man and She-Ra. A small horde of characters from Japanese kids’ TV shows. I have gotten old, but I have somehow failed to grow up.
This is my life, but I can’t wrap my head around it. At age 41, I still play video games, regularly watch cartoons, and buy toys and collectibles based on movies and shows I enjoyed when I was six. The fact that I am a nerd at this age feels wholly unnatural, despite the fact I’ve never stopped being one. I’ve even parlayed this nerdiness into an almost 20-year career writing about nerd stuff, most recently as the editor of io9, Gizmodo’s site devoted to pop culture.

Your Power Button Won’t Last Forever
Companies like Apple want to strip away every mechanical bit
You’re close to becoming powerless over your phone, and it all has to do with the little “wake” button on its skinny right side.

Can ‘The Walking Dead’ Survive Without Its Lead Character?
It sure as hell can’t survive with him

How to Save the DC Superhero Movie Universe
Warner Bros. is doing almost everything wrong, but the answer is right in front of them
You don’t need to be a nerd to see how badly Warner Bros. has squandered its DC Comics superheroes in this golden age of superhero movies. Man of Steel, Batman v. Superman, and especially Justice League all failed to please fans, critics, and mass audiences or meet Warner Bros.’ financial projections. Last week, Warner Bros. unceremoniously dumped Superman and Henry Cavill to recalibrate the DC movie universe around Supergirl, while Ben Affleck, a superhero so depressed that he generated his own meme, finally escaped the solo Batman film back in June when the studio decided to focus on a younger Dark Knight.
In short: Warner Bros. has sidelined its star superheroes—two of the most recognizable, most beloved, and most lucrative characters in the world. It’s a massive problem, but one Warner Bros. already has the solution to. It just doesn’t know it yet.

Captain Marvel Isn’t Marvel’s Answer to Wonder Woman… Yet
The studio’s first solo female superhero has a lot more riding on her shoulders than ticket sales

Amazon’s Smart Doorbell Is Creepy as Hell
The dark future of neighborhood watch has arrived
Ring, an Amazon-owned smart doorbell company, wants to help you and your neighbors gossip about “suspicious activity” on your street with a standalone app called Neighbors. The app, which was introduced in May, encourages people to bring the surveillance state home by uploading video clips and publishing reports about neighborhood activities, which are then broadcast to other users and participating police departments.
Ring markets Neighbors as a modern version of an old-school neighborhood watch program, encouraging communities to band together to protect one another and combat crime. In a commercial for Neighbors, a pair of greasy would-be package thieves are deterred from their crime after realizing video of them is being broadcast throughout the neighborhood. No cops are called, but a man walking his beagle, who has been alerted to their presence through the Neighbors app, watches the thwarted thieves drive their clunker out of the neighborhood, crime averted.

E.T. Is Secretly the Scariest Movie of All Time
Steven Spielberg didn’t create the universe’s most beloved alien. He created a nightmare.
Yes, the much-anticipated Halloween reboot recently murdered its competition at the box office. But I regret to inform you that Michael Myers is not the most frightening monster in cinema. No, it’s not Friday the 13th’s Jason, nor Freddy of Elm Street infamy. Nor is it the Alien and Predator of Alien and Predator (respectively), Jack Nicholson in The Shining, Regan in The Exorcist, or any other traditional movie monster. I’m not afraid of any of them. That’s because I have seen the horrid, shriveled face of true cinematic evil and the inhuman, glowing finger that accompanied it.
I do not like E.T. No, check that: I loathe E.T. I hate E.T. to the core of my being. If I came home one day to find my family brutally murdered, E.T. covered in their blood, and using said blood to write “ROB BRICKEN IS AN ASSHOLE” on the wall, I would not find him more awful than I do already. Yet, somehow, countless others love E.T. His eponymous movie is regarded as one of the best family friendly films ever made, and among Steven Spielberg’s crowning achievements.
It should go without saying that everyone is wrong, and have all been tricked by Spielberg and his malformed creation into believing E.T. The Extra-Terrestrial is wholesome and heartwarming, despite the overwhelming evidence to the contrary. Chances are, you are one of these tens of millions of misguided souls. If so, read on, because I have an unassailable argument for why this so-called lovable alien should be feared and hated, beginning with this undeniable fact: E.T. looks like male genitalia.
I don’t say this to be crass. I absolutely do not like that he looks this way, but it cannot be denied. His large torso is a brownish, wrinkled sack atop two small feet. His head is bulbous, and upsettingly lies atop a long neck which E.T. extends whenever he is excited. It is a bleak truth, but a truth all the same. The proof is now that you’ve been made aware of it, you will never be able to unsee it, no matter how many times you watch the film.
But even if E.T. looked as comfortably human as Spock from Star Trek, it wouldn’t excuse what is considered one of the film’s most charming scenes: When E.T. gets a child drunk. After inviting an alien into his home, 10-year-old Elliott leaves for school the next morning; once alone in the house, E.T.’s almost immediate action is to consume alcohol.
He pounds a six-pack in about five minutes, which would be problematic enough. However, E.T. has formed a psychic connection with Elliott that the boy neither asked for nor consented to. So, while the alien drunkenly rampages through the house, the equally inebriated Elliot tries to free all the frogs scheduled for live dissection that day in class. Most heinously of all, when E.T. sees a couple kiss on TV, he sends poor, prepubescent Elliott the command to harass one of his female schoolmates by kissing her, too. This is not heartwarming.
It could be argued that at this point E.T. has not realized the symbiotic connection he’s formed with Elliott, and I can’t prove otherwise. However, the alien has no excuses for what follows. After having the idea to “phone home” while bombed, E.T. mysteriously starts falling ill. That night, the alien forces his young, devoted friend to take him to the forest to make his call, and sleep there on the ground, in the cold, overnight. When Elliott’s older brother Michael arrives, he discovers not only that Elliott has become severely sick, but he sees one of the most horrific sights in all of cinema: The bloated, fish-belly-white body of the terminally ill E.T, screaming in agony. This is simply awful to behold.
